Three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection analysis of macaque brain PET: development and initial applications. To characterize better the local brain functions of conscious rhesus macaques, we developed automated image analysis techniques for monkey PET images, examined the cerebral glucose metabolism of monkeys, and compared it with that of humans.Glucose metabolic PET images from 11 monkeys were obtained using a high-resolution animal PET scanner after intravenous administration of FDG. T1-weighted MR images were obtained from 6 of the monkeys. Referencing a bicommissural stereotactic macaque brain atlas, we created a PET brain template using coregistered MR images. Each individual PET image set was transformed to the PET template through an automated affine transformation, followed by nonlinear warping along the directions of the major neuronal fiber bundles in the brain. For minimization of residual anatomic variability, metabolic activities were extracted using 3-dimensional stereotactic surface projections. The effects of anatomic standardization were evaluated using MR images. Patterns of cerebral glucose metabolism of young versus aged monkeys were examined. The metabolic activities of aged monkeys were compared with those of elderly healthy human volunteers that had been analyzed similarly.Anatomic standardization reduced individuals' anatomic variability as evidenced by a reduction in the number of MR pixels with higher SDs calculated across monkeys. Coefficient-of-variation maps of conscious monkeys revealed that the greatest metabolic variances were near the central sulci and occipital cortices. Age-associated glucose metabolic reductions were most pronounced in the occipital lobe, caudate nucleus, and temporal lobe. Compared with human brains, the monkey frontal lobe and posterior cingulate gyrus had significantly less metabolic activity and the supramarginal gyrus and vermis had significantly more metabolic activity.The proposed method permits pixel-by-pixel characterization of the metabolic activities of rhesus macaque brains in the stereotactic coordinate system. Greater metabolic variances in the central sulcus region and occipital lobe suggest potential difficulties in controlling sensory input and motor output or planning in conscious monkey experiments. The analyses revealed age-related metabolic reductions in monkeys and marked differences in metabolic patterns between aged monkey brains and aged human brains. The proposed brain-mapping technique enables reproducible and observer-independent analyses and will serve as an important investigative tool for primate brain imaging research.