Holistic polar map for integrated evaluation of cardiac imaging results. Polar map display (PM) is a comprehensive interpretation of the left ventricle. This is a non-rigid registration of the left ventricle originally for the visual and quantitative analysis of tomographic myocardial perfusion scintigrams. In this scheme the maximal-count circumferential profiles of well-defined short- and long-axis planes are plotted to a map showing the distribution of the perfusion tracer onto a two-dimensional polar representation. The usual coronary artery distribution is often indicated on the PMs of SPECT studies by referring to the regions of the three main coronary branches, nevertheless, the individual variations may differ extensively. We set out to develop an Access (Microsoft)-based computer program that permits an integrated evaluation of the imaging results (coronary angiography, echocardiography and SPECT) on patients with coronary artery disease. This semi-quantitative registration of the coronary tree to a PM focused on the relation between the supplying coronary branches and the myocardial regions of the 16-segment left ventricular evaluating model. All the recorded anatomical and functional data were related to these 16 left ventricular segments, which allowed the direct comparison and holistic synthesis of the results. Two projections were taken into consideration for generation of the coronary PM: from the right anterior oblique projections, the left anterior descendent (LAD)/right coronary artery (RCA) border was assessed through the comparison of the left and right coronary angiograms. The terminations of the visually detected end-arteries showed the separation of the myocardial beds supplied by the two branches. The border of the myocardial beds on the polar map was determined on the "vertical axis" of the local coordinate system. The RCA/ left circumflex (LCx) separation can be determined from the left anterior oblique view. In this projection, the left ventricular septal edge was delineated by the LAD, while the LCx indicated the lateral epicardial surface. The individual coronary artery circulation was typified from among 12 variations in the Holistic Coronary Care program. With this determination of the individual coronary circulation, the lesion-associated segments are generated automatically by the software. The lesion-associated regions are defined as the myocardial bed of a diseased artery distal to the lesion. The PMs generated from the coronary angiographic results were compared with those of 99Tc-labelled MIBI single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in order to test the accuracy of the localizing method. The overlap between the segments associated with the coronary lesion and the stress perfusion defects (<80% relative MIBI activity during stress tests) was analyzed in 10 patients with (sub)total coronary occlusion after myocardial infarction. The distributions of the segments with stress perfusion defects on MIBI SPECT gave positive and negative predictive values of coronary occlusion of 0.94 and 0.8, respectively. According to the 16-segment wall motion analysis by echocardiography, the positive and negative predictive values of coronary occlusion for wall motion abnormality were 0.82 and 0.76, respectively. While the distal part of the subtended region usually demonstrated a higher degree perfusion abnormality than the proximal part, the high positive predictive value proved that, during the stress condition, the perfusion defect could be detected in practically all the subtended regions. The low negative predictive value of the coronary lesion for the wall motion abnormality was associated with the remodeling of the entire left ventricle.