Multi-scale algorithm for improved scintillation detection in a CCD-based gamma camera. Gamma cameras based on charge-coupled devices (CCDs) and micro-columnar CsI scintillators can reach high spatial resolutions. However, the gamma interaction probability of these scintillators is low (typically <30% at 141 keV) due to the limited thickness of presently available micro-columnar scintillators. Continuous scintillators can improve the interaction probability but suffer from increased light spread compared to columnar scintillators. In addition, for both types of scintillators, gamma photons incident at an oblique angle reduce the spatial resolution due to the variable depth of interaction (DOI). To improve the spatial resolution and spectral characteristics of these detectors, we have developed a fast analytic scintillation detection algorithm that makes use of a depth-dependent light spread model and as a result is able to estimate the DOI in the scintillator. This algorithm, performing multi-scale frame analysis, was tested for an electron multiplying CCD (EM-CCD) optically coupled to CsI(Tl) scintillators of different thicknesses. For the thickest scintillator (2.6 mm) a spatial resolution of 148 microm full width half maximum (FWHM) was obtained with an energy resolution of 46% FWHM for perpendicularly incident gamma photons (interaction probability 61% at 141 keV). The multi-scale algorithm improves the spatial resolution up to 11%, the energy resolution up to 36% and the signal-to-background counts ratio up to 46% compared to a previously implemented algorithm that did not model the depth-dependent light spread. In addition, the multi-scale algorithm can accurately estimate DOI. As a result, degradation of the spatial resolution due to the variable DOI for gamma photons incident at a 45 degrees angle was improved from 2.0 10(3) to 448 microm FWHM. We conclude that the multi-scale algorithm significantly improves CCD-based gamma cameras as can be applied in future SPECT systems.