Thallium-201 SPECT in the diagnosis of head and neck cancer. The accuracy of SPECT with 201Tl-chloride for the diagnosis of primary tumors, lymph node metastases and recurrences in head and neck cancer was evaluated for clinical applicability.SPECT images, obtained 60 min after administration of 150 MBq 201Tl-chloride, were compared with clinical, CT and/or MRI and histology results. In addition, whole-body images were obtained to detect distant metastases.In 79 patients studied for primary tumors (principally larynix, hypopharynx, oropharynx, nasopharynx and oral cavity), 201Tl SPECT correctly identified 69 of 73 (95% versus 88% for CT/MRI) histologically confirmed malignancies including 63 squamous-cell carcinomas. The method localized four occult naso- and oropharynx carcinomas not seen on CT/MRI and was correctly negative in two patients without tumor and in three of four patients with no confirmed primary tumor in the head and neck. With respect to regional spread, only patients who had cervical lymph node dissection were evaluated, and the findings were recorded per side of the neck. Thallium-201 SPECT correctly identified metastases in 31 of 36 neck dissections with proven lymph node involvement (86%), was correctly negative in nine and false-positive in one. Although the sensitivity of CT/MRI was clearly higher (97%), considerably more false-positive cases affected its accuracy (81% versus 87% for SPECT). In 30 patients investigated for recurrences, 201Tl SPECT correctly identified 27 of 29 microscopically confirmed tumor sites (93%) and was correctly negative in seven. Sensitivity of CT/MRI was lower (76%), and a greater number of false-positives (seven versus three for SPECT) further decreased its accuracy (64% versus 87% for SPECT). Distant metastases were detected in five patients.Thallium-201 SPECT appears to be an accurate method for the diagnosis of head and neck cancer. The method is particularly useful for detection of occult head and neck tumors and for assessing recurrences. It also may be of complementary value in the staging of primary tumors, in the differentiation of metastatic from reactive lymph nodes in the neck and, on the basis of whole-body scanning, for screening of distant metastases.