Phase I/II clinical radioimmunotherapy with an iodine-131-labeled anti-carcinoembryonic antigen murine monoclonal antibody IgG. The aim of this study was to determine, in a Phase I/II clinical trial, the pharmacokinetics, dosimetry and toxicity, as well as antitumor activity, of the 131I-labeled murine anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) monoclonal antibody, NP-4 (IgG1 subtype).A total of 57 patients with CEA-expressing tumors (29 colorectal, 9 lung, 7 pancreas, 6 breast and 4 medullary thyroid cancer patients), mostly in very advanced stages, were treated. The patients underwent a diagnostic study (1-3 mg of IgG and 8-30 mCi of 131I) to assess tumor targeting and to estimate dosimetry, followed by the therapeutic dose (4-23 mg and 44-268 mCi), based on the radiation dose to the red marrow. Imaging was performed from 4-240 hr postinjection (planar and SPECT). Blood and whole-body clearance were determined radiation doses were calculated by the Medical Internal Radiation Dose scheme.Red marrow doses ranged from 45 to 706 cGy, and whole-body doses ranged from 31 to 344 cGy. Differences in pharmacokinetics were found between different types of CEA-producing tumors: blood T 1/2 was significantly lower in colorectal cancer when compared to all other tumor types (21.4 +/- 11.1 hr versus 35.8 +/- 13.2 hr, p < 0.01), as was also whole-body t 1/2. Myelotoxicity was dose-limiting, and its severity was related to the types of prior therapy and extent of bone marrow involvement. In patients without prior radiation or chemotherapy, marrow doses as high as 600 cGy were tolerated without evidence of dose-limiting toxicity. No major toxicity to other organs was observed. Tumor doses were inversely related to the tumor mass and ranged between 2 and 218 cGy/mCi. Modest antitumor effects were seen in 12 of 35 assessable patients (1 partial remission, 4 minor/mixed responses and 7 with stabilization of previously rapidly progressing disease).These results suggest that prior chemotherapy or external beam radiation is an important risk factor for the development of hematological toxicity in radioimmunotherapy and that higher radiation doses may be delivered to tumors of patients without prior therapy compromising the bone marrow reserve. The different and, in the individual cases, unpredictable clearance rates suggest the necessity of dosimetry-based treatment planning rather than mCi/m2 dosing. Small tumors seem to be more suitable for radioimmunotherapy because of their favorable dosimetry, but to achieve better therapeutic results in patients with bulky disease, the application of higher, potentially myeloablative doses is indicated.