Clinical value of immunoscintigraphy in patients with fever of unknown origin. The aim of our study was to evaluate the clinical value of immunoscintigraphy with the monoclonal antibody 99mTc-BW 250/183 in patients with fever of unknown origin (FUO). The antibody BW 250/183 is an immunoglobulin G1 subtype that binds to the antigen NCA-95, which is expressed on the cell membrane surface of granulocytes.We studied 51 patients who were referred with the diagnosis of FUO. Thirty-five percent of the patients suffered from infection, 17% had autoimmune diseases, 14% had neoplasms and 8% had other diseases. The remaining 28% of the patients did not have a diagnosis. Planar imaging was performed in all patients, and 19 patients underwent SPECT. In our analysis, both cold and hot spots were considered diagnostic.Pyogenic infections were visualized correctly in 13 foci. The diagnosis of endocarditis (n = 4) could be determined only by SPECT. False-negative results were found in 4 patients and false-positive uptake was seen in 2 patients. No false-positive uptake or cold spots in the central bone marrow were found in patients with viral, granulomatous and autoimmune diseases or in those patients in whom no FUO cause was found in a 6-mo follow-up. In these patients, a negative scan did not change their diagnostic work-up. Cold spots in the central bone marrow were correctly interpreted in 5 of 6 patients. Sensitivity in detecting pyogenic foci was 73% and specificity was 97%. Positive and negative predictive values were 93% and 87%, respectively. Including areas of decreased uptake in the analysis, sensitivity for detecting an underlying inflammatory or malignant process for FUO was 81 % and specificity was 87%. Positive and negative predictive values were 81% and 87%, respectively.Immunoscintigraphy with 99mTc-BW 250/183 in patients with FUO has clinical potential for the diagnosis and exclusion of pyogenic causes of FUO. Metastatic malignant disease and high-grade spondylodiskitis could be diagnosed early in a diagnostic work-up by a characteristic cold spot pattern in the bone marrow. SPECT is indispensible for scintigraphic imaging of endocarditis.