Functional imaging of human muscle. Medical imaging is now giving access not only to anatomy but also to functions of organs in the human body. Functional imaging may yield a direct appreciation of the function of a given organ, as is the case when measuring ejection fraction of heart with SPECT. Alternately the approach is indirect. This is the case of cerebral functional imaging, either with PET or NMR, where the perfusion increase induced by neuronal activity is detected. Recent developments of NMR, combining imaging and spectroscopy, allow now to detect modification of physiological parameters induced by muscular activity. Indirect detection of muscle activity is very rich in information alternately requiring invasive techniques. Water shifts resulting from intense exercise are detected either from muscle volume increase or water signal modifications, using simple NMR sequences. Then it is easy to identify which muscle is involved in a given protocol. These water shifts, studied in various muscles and several types of exercise protocols, reflect the perfusion increase induced by exercise, and the contribution of metabolic products such as lactate. In some patients with metabolic myopathies a decreased adaptation of perfusion has been detected. Perfusion measurements, previously performed by using venous occlusion plethysmography or radioactive tracers, now benefit from recently developed MR techniques. Oxygenation of muscle may be measured either by spectroscopy of myoglobin, allowing a time resolution of 1 second, or by spectroscopic imaging allowing a spatial resolution of 1-2 cm in a few minutes. Muscle temperature may be non invasively monitored by diffusion-weighted MR. Direct detection of muscle activity is useful only in those muscles that cannot be directly observed. Ultrafast MR imaging may be used to study vocal cords or oculomotor muscles. More interesting is the measurement of contractility, either in myocardium or skeletal muscle, allowed by MR with spin-tagging. Another contribution of MR to muscle studies is the possibility to quantify muscle cross section and muscle volume, in order to normalize strength or metabolism measurements. Sequences using T1 or T2 differences between muscular and adipose tissue allow to quantify the true muscular volume in patients with neuromuscular disorders. Protocols combining several of these parameters by interleaved NMR measurements of perfusion, phosphorylated metabolites, lactate, myoglobin, now open the way to many comprehensive non-invasive pathophysiological studies.