Noninvasive evaluation before and after percutaneous therapy of iliac artery stenoses: the value of the Bernoulli-predicted pressure gradient. The purpose of this study was to assess the value of the Bernoulli-predicted pressure gradient in the noninvasive evaluation of patients undergoing iliac percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) or stent placement with the use of intra-arterial pressure measurements as the standard of reference.Stent placement or PTA was performed in 261 patients with intermittent claudication caused by iliac artery stenoses (333 procedures). Intra-arterial translesional pressure gradients were recorded before and after each procedure. Hemodynamic success was defined as a postprocedural mean pressure gradient less than or equal to 10 mm Hg at rest and during vasodilatation. Before and after intervention, the following noninvasive parameters were determined: the Bernoulli-predicted pressure gradient, the peak systolic velocity ratio, and the ankle-brachial pressure index.Before treatment, both the intra-arterial-measured pressure gradients and the Bernoulli-predicted gradients indicated hemodynamic significance of the iliac artery stenoses. After treatment, both methods indicated significant improvement of the translesional pressure gradient (P <. 0001). However, the correlation between the intra-arterially measured pressure gradient and the Bernoulli-predicted gradient of iliac artery stenoses was low (Pearson's r = 0.27). None of the three investigated noninvasive methods could differentiate an optimal PTA or stent result from a suboptimal result, as assessed by intra-arterial pressure measurements.The disappointing correlation among the duplex velocity data, whether expressed as pressure gradient or as a peak systolic velocity ratio, and the actually measured pressure gradient might be caused by errors in pressure or velocity measurements or the different circumstances in which the pressure or velocity measurements were performed. Residual pressure gradients after iliac PTA or stent placement assessed with intra-arterial pressure measurements could not be assessed with the investigated noninvasive methods.