Expression of endomyocardial nitric oxide synthase and coronary endothelial function in human cardiac allografts. Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) is expressed and is functionally active in the presence of transplant arteriosclerosis. However, the early involvement of iNOS in alterations of microvascular endothelial function in the absence of preexisting lesions remains unclear this information would be of prognostic value. We studied the course of iNOS mRNA expression, transcardiac nitric oxide production, and their potential association with microvascular coronary endothelial dysfunction in human cardiac allografts.A total of 42 patients were studied at 1, 6, and 12 months after heart transplantation. Microvascular coronary flow velocity reserve (CFVR) was tested in an endothelium-dependent (acetylcholine) and -independent manner (adenosine) using a Doppler flow wire. Endomyocardial iNOS expression was determined by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. iNOS protein and nitrotyrosine levels were detected by immunohistochemistry. Transcardiac plasma nitrite/nitrate (NOx) levels were measured by the Griess reaction. CFVR was impaired in 26.1% of patients (n=11) at 1 month and in 31% of patients (n=13) at 12 months after heart transplantation. Patients who developed impaired CFVR in the first year showed a significant increase in iNOS gene expression. Patients with impairment of CFVR 1 month after heart transplantation had higher levels of iNOS mRNA than patients with a normal CFVR. Patients with an initial impairment of CFVR who did not improve over time presented with significantly higher iNOS mRNA levels. iNOS protein and nitrotyrosine were expressed in the endomyocardial vessels of patients with impaired CFVR. Transcardiac NOx release was higher in patients with impaired CFVR.In human cardiac allografts, microvascular endothelial dysfunction is associated with an enhanced endomyocardial iNOS mRNA expression and higher transcardiac NOx production and is accompanied by the expression of nitrotyrosine protein, suggesting peroxynitrite plays a role in the disease process. The data from the present study suggest an important role for the iNOS/nitric oxide pathway in the regulation of microvascular function in the absence of preexisting atherosclerotic lesions.