Minimally invasive robotic coronary bypass on the beating heart using da Vinci S system. To summarize the experience of minimally invasive robotic coronary bypass on beating heart using da Vinci S in China.Fifty-six patients underwent selected robotic coronary bypass on beating heart from April 2007 to December 2008. All the patients had history of angina and the coronary arteriography showed severe stenosis in the left anterior descending artery (LAD), of which 10 cases had right coronary artery or left circumflex coronary (LCX) stenosis. The age was 33 to 74 years old, with a mean of (55.8 +/- 9.4) years old. The weight was (71.4 +/- 13.2) kg. All the patients had good lung function and had no medical history of pleurisy and thoracic surgery. CT scan of double internal thoracic artery (ITA) was routinely checked preoperatively. The procedures included: (1) The robotically assisted endoscopic atraumatic coronary artery bypass surgery. The approach was via a small left anterior thoracotomy (6 to 8 cm) after robotic ITA was taken down. The ITA was manually anastomosed to the LAD or LCX on beating heart. (2) Totally endoscopic coronary bypass graft on beating heart. After ITA harvesting, the endo stabilizer was inserted via the fourth port in the xiphoid area under endoscopic vision. The left ITA to the LAD grafting was done using U-clips on beating heart in a totally endoscopic manner using da Vinci S system through 4 ports. For all patients the ITA flow was checked by the Doppler flowmeter after anastomosis was completed. After the surgery was completed, the thoracic port was checked carefully to avoid bleeding. The operating procedures and a variety of clinical parameters were recorded and analyzed. (3) Stent placement after robotic surgery in a hybrid manner. The graft patency rate was evaluated by CT or arteriography.All patients successfully accepted robotic minimally invasive coronary bypass on the beating heart using da Vinci S surgical system without complications. The mean graft flow was (23.2 +/- 16.7) ml/min. And there was no surgical conversion and surgical death. Fifty-three patients received ITA to LAD grafts and 3 patients received double coronary artery bypass grafts as well. Ten cases received stent placement in separate session. The CT scan and angiography revealed patent grafts in all patients. There were no post-operative complications. All patients were discharged from hospital.As a new advanced approach of revascularization, robotic ITA harvesting and coronary anastomoses can be safely performed with the da Vinci S system. The procedure is minimally invasive and can offer enhanced ability to control precise and stable operative manipulations.