Vasectomy and atherosclerosis: an association in man? We have investigated the distensibility of the lower limb arteries by an ultrasonic technique following vasectomy. Vasectomy accelerates the development of atherosclerosis in animals and this has been attributed to an immunological mechanism. Immunological changes are common in men following this operation, but epidemiological surveys have failed to reveal evidence of an increase in arterial disease. We have studied distensibility at the posterior tibial arteries by Laplace transform analysis of Doppler waveforms in 49 vasectomised men and 33 controls. Statistical analysis of each subject's higher (less distensible) value showed reduced distensibility in the vasectomised group (P = 0.006). This result lends support to the possibility that vasectomy may accelerate the development of peripheral arterial disease in man.A possible association between vasectomy and atherosclerosis was assessed by investigating stiffness of lower limb arteries after vasectomy using analysis of Doppler ultrasound waveforms from posterior tibial arteries.  49 men who had undergone vasectomy 8 years previously at a clinic in Bristol, England, and who still lived locally were included in the study.  33 age-matched controls were selected from the hospital staff and healthy preoperative patients awaiting procedures such as hernia repair.  A full cardiovascular history, details of smoking habits, and a physical examination were performed.  Doppler waveforms were obtained from each posterior tibial artery after at least 10 minutes of supine rest on a couch.  Distensibility of the arteries was studied by Laplace transform analysis of Doppler waveforms.  No significant difference was found between the ages of the 2 groups, but vasectomized men had higher mean blood pressure values (range 75-123, median 103) than controls (76-120, median 96).  Statistical analysis of each subject's higher (less distensible) value showed reduced distensibility in the vasectomized group (P = 0.006).  Significantly higher values were found in nonsmokers than smokers, but details of the duration and type of smoking were not taken into account.  The results support the possibility that vasectomy may accelerate the development of peripheral arterial disease in men, but careful investigation of larger numbers of vasectomized and matched control subjects is required before any firm conclusion can be reached.