Effects of ligation of the internal iliac artery on blood flow to the bladder and detrusor function in rat. Ischaemia induced by atherosclerosis is a common cause of disorders in the elderly, including impairment of bladder function. To evaluate experimentally the effects of ischaemia on detrusor function, we performed infusion cystometry and evaluated the morphologic findings in the bladder of the rat. Blood flow to the bladder of the rat was evaluated with a Doppler flowmeter before and after the unilateral or bilateral ligation of the internal iliac arteries. Reevaluation was done at one and two weeks after surgery. Bladder function was studied by infusion cystometry performed in vivo under urethane anaesthesia. Finally, histological examination was performed. Blood flow at mid-dorsal wall of the control bladder was inversely related to intravesical volume. Unilateral or bilateral ligation of the internal iliac arteries decreased blood flow to the bladder, which showed a complete recovery two weeks postoperatively. Infusion cystometry of the ischaemic bladder with bilateral ligation of the internal iliac arteries demonstrated a decrease in voiding pressure, an increase in bladder capacity, and an increase in pressure at which micturition was initiated vs. the control. The bladder with unilateral ligation of the artery showed a decrease in voiding pressure, with no change in the other parameters. Histological examination indicated that the bilateral ischaemia and ischaemic side of unilateral ischaemia led to a degeneration of the mucosa, and severe oedema in submucosal and muscle layers one week postoperatively. Degeneration of smooth muscle was predominant at 2 weeks. Contralateral side of the unilaterally ischaemic bladder showed oedema and congestion of the submucosa and smooth muscle. Ligation of the internal iliac artery decreased blood flow to the bladder significantly, which resulted in smooth muscle degeneration. Consequently, in vivo voiding pressure was impaired in the ischaemic bladder.