Transcatheter intraarterial infusion of rt-PA for acute lower limb ischemia: results and complications. To determine the success and complication rates of intraarterial recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) infusion for the treatment of acute lower extremity artery and bypass graft occlusions.The results of 74 limbs in 70 patients (mean age, 66 y) treated with catheter-directed rt-PA infusion for the treatment of acute lower extremity ischemia were retrospectively evaluated. The group included 42 bypass grafts and 32 native arteries. All limbs were viable at presentation. The mean duration of symptoms was 11.9 days. rt-PA was infused for a mean of 27.9 hours for a mean total dose of 38.7 mg. Initial infusion rates of 3-6 mg/h were lowered to a preferred rate of 1.5 mg/h. Thrombolytic success was defined as 95% thrombolysis of an occluded segment with return of antegrade flow. Major bleeding complications were defined as any hemorrhagic event leading to surgery, extended or unexpected hospitalization, transfusion, death, intracranial hemorrhage, or a decrease in hemoglobin of 5 g/dL or in hematocrit of 15%. Thirty-day mortality and amputation rates were calculated. Patient characteristics and infusion parameters were evaluated as to whether they contributed to thrombolytic success or major bleeding events.Thrombolytic success was achieved in 64 limbs (86%). Major bleeding complications occurred in 33 (47%) patients. In 22 of these patients, bleeding occurred at a vascular puncture site, whereas remote bleeding occurred in seven patients. Remote bleeding complications included two retroperitoneal hematomas, two rectus sheath hematomas, one lower gastrointestinal hemorrhage, one episode of hemoptysis, and one dehiscence of a femoral-popliteal bypass graft revision. No parameters were found to be predictive of thrombolytic success, whereas a negative history of smoking, increasing duration of infusion, and a low preprocedural ankle-brachial index (ABI) were found to be associated with major hemorrhagic events. Four patients (6%) underwent amputation and one patient (1%) died, resulting in a 30-day amputation-free survival rate of 93%.Catheter-directed rt-PA infusion is effective in achieving thrombolysis. Despite a significant number of bleeding complications, 30-day mortality and amputation rates were favorable. Nonetheless, complication rates related to bleeding were not trivial and further evaluation with use of variable dosing regimens is indicated.