Endovascular therapy in combination with conventional vascular surgery for the treatment of peripheral arterial obliterative disease. In a prospective trial we analysed the results and the management of complications following a combined endovascular and vascular surgical therapy of peripheral occlusive arterial disease (POAD).From November 1998 until January 2001 a total number of 61 patients with 64 extremities were included in this study. By preoperative angiography 19 patients had stenoses at three levels, 42 patients suffered from stenoses at two levels. The iliac axis was recanalized by intraluminal angioplasty (ITA) plus stent placement under general anesthesia. Simultaneously an infrainguinal bypass reconstruction and a local thrombendarterectomy (TEA) rsp. were performed. Intra- and postoperative complications and the patency rates as assessed by colour doppler ultrasound and angiography were analysed.The rate of conversion from endovascular to conventional surgery was 12.5 %. In 56 cases the endovascular therapy of the iliac axis was successful. In 28 patients a distal bypass was implanted, in 25 patients a local TEA was performed. Intraoperatively 6 dissections (10.7 %) were noted, dislocation of stents were seen in 4 patients (7.1 %), perforations occurred in 2 patients (3.6 %). Both perforations and 5/6 dissections were detected intraoperatively and were treated by endovascular means without complications. The early postoperative patency rate was 98.2 %, the secondary patency rate was 100 % and the cumulative patency rate after two years was 98.2 %.ITA and stent placement in the iliac axis can be established quickly and safely by the vascular surgeon. Intraoperative complications can be managed by endovascular means in most cases. Stent dislocation is avoidable in most cases. The complication rate after such combined endovascular therapy and conventional vascular surgery is determined by the surgical but not the endovascular part. Excellent early results and low complication rates lead to the conclusion that endovascular therapy in combination with conventional vascular surgery seems to be a reasonable supplement to the therapeutic options for the treatment of POAD.