Can the Perclose suture-mediated closure system be used safely in patients undergoing diagnostic and therapeutic angiography to treat chronic lower extremity ischemia? Mechanical closure devices for arterial hemostasis after angiography, such as the Perclose suture-mediated closure system, are designed to decrease time to ambulation and improve patient comfort. Although these devices are safe and efficacious, to date there has been little reported about use of the Perclose device in a cohort consisting exclusively of patients with lower extremity peripheral vascular disease. The purpose of this study was to determine the safety and efficacy of routine use of the Perclose system in patients with documented peripheral vascular disease undergoing angiography to treat chronic lower extremity ischemia.The Perclose device was placed for arterial closure after femoral artery access in 500 consecutive patients with documented peripheral vascular disease (ankle-brachial index, <0.8) who underwent diagnostic angiography or percutaneous intervention because of chronic lower extremity ischemia. These 500 patients composed 91% of all patients who underwent angiography because of chronic lower extremity ischemia between January 1, 2001, and April 1, 2002. All complications associated with the Perclose device were identified and reviewed.Of the 500 arteries, 54% were accessed for diagnostic angiography and 46% for intervention. Perclose device placement was successful in 475 attempts (95%). Overall major complication rate was 1.4% (7 of 500 arteries). Complications included one death from retroperitoneal hemorrhage three episodes of limb ischemia, two requiring operation and one requiring lytic therapyThe Perclose suture-mediated closure device is efficacious and can be used safely in selected patients with documented peripheral vascular disease. Complications associated with this device tend to be more severe than those historically reported for manual compression. Substantial experience with use of this device is required to achieve excellent results in patients with difficult anatomy.