Effects of pressure stimulation of the body surface on posture and vestibulospinal reflexes. The effects of pressure stimulation of the body surface on postural activities as well as on the response gain of limb extensors to natural stimulation of labyrinth receptors were investigated in intact, as well as in decerebrate cats. In intact, unanesthetized cats, slight pressure applied symmetrically to the body surface at the chest level decreased the tonic activity of the axial (neck) and limb extensor musculature, as well as the proprioceptive reflexes induced by passive flexion of the limbs. The positive supporting reaction caused by pressure applied to the pad of the foot was also depressed. If the cats were suspended in the air by their nape, slight pressure applied to the upper part of the body greatly reduced the tonic contraction of the forelimb extensors to linear acceleration after downward movement of the animal, a response which can be attributed to stimulation of macular receptors located in the sacculus. Moreover, the prominent myotatic reflexes which occurred in all four limbs as soon as the animal touched the floor were greatly depressed, as shown by the fact that the forelimbs displayed only a slight tonic contraction of the extensor musculature during landing, while the hindlimbs collapsed under the weight of the body. In precollicular decerebrate cats there was a good postural activity in all four limbs. Moreover, the multiunit EMG activity of the medial head of the triceps brachii responded to roll tilt of the animal (at 0.15 Hz, +/- 10 degrees) leading to selective stimulation of labyrinth receptors. These responses, characterized by an increased EMG activity during side-down tilt and a decreased activity during side-up tilt, were related to animal position and not to velocity of animal displacement, and are thus attributable to stimulation of macular, utricular receptors. Slight pressure applied to the chest greatly decreased not only the postural activity of the limbs, but also the amplitude of EMG modulation and then the gain in the first harmonic component of the multiunit EMG responses of the triceps brachii to animal tilt. This reduced gain was due, in particular, to a reduced number of motor units being recruited during labyrinth stimulation, although a reduced modulation of firing rate of the active motor units should not be ruled out. However, no changes in the phase angle of the responses were observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)