A comparative study of magnetic resonance cholangiography and direct cholangiography. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) is a rapidly developing method for the noninvasive assessment of the biliary tree and pancreatic duct that obviates the need for contrast medium. We describe our experience with this new diagnostic imaging method in patients with obstruction of the biliary tree. We assessed both the location and cause of obstruction, and compared the results with direct cholangiography.Between 1997 and 1998, 81 patients underwent MRCP at our facility. Two different image acquisition protocols (half-Fourier acquisition single-shot turbo spin-echo -HASTE- and rapid acquisition with relaxation enhancement -RARE-) for T2-weighted turbo spin echo sequences as well as cross-sectional fast multiplanar gradient-echo pulse (T1-weighted FL2D) and T2-weighted fast spin echo (T2 TSE) sequences were used. All patients underwent direct (either percutaneous or endoscopic retrograde) cholangiography or surgery for confirmation and/or treatment. The images obtained with MRCP were evaluated by two radiologists with expertise in biliary tree imaging who were unaware of the patient's clinical characteristics, and their diagnostic interpretations were compared with the findings obtained upon surgery or direct cholangiography.The sensitivity and specificity of MRCP in ruling out pathologies and detecting the presence of dilatation of the biliary tree were 100%. In assessing the level of the obstruction, sensitivity and specificity varied with location (intrahepatic/hilar, suprapancreatic, intrapancreatic or ampullary). Sensitivity in these locations was 100, 92, 69 and 86%, respectively, whereas specificity was 100, 94, 92 and 91%, respectively. In determining the cause of the obstruction, the results were variable depending on the cause: choledocholithiasis (sensitivity, 89% specificity, 90%) malignant obstruction (sensitivity, 92%MRCP offered high diagnostic accuracy in the assessment of the occurrence and location of biliary obstruction. Sensitivity and specificity in establishing the cause varied, and were highest for choledocholithiasis and malignant obstruction. MRCP may be used instead of ERCP, which may then be reserved for patients who are likely to require surgery.