Ampullary adenoma: clinical manifestations, diagnosis, and treatment. Ampullary adenomas occur sporadically and in the setting of familial polyposis syndromes. In either case, and whether symptomatic at presentation or found asymptomatically in the setting of endoscopic screening programs, they are premalignant lesions with risk for malignant degeneration to carcinoma following the adenoma-to-carcinoma sequence that is well recognized in colonic adenocarcinoma. Accordingly, many experts advocate excision, although others cite the low rate of histologic progression suggested by some recent studies as justification for close endoscopic surveillance rather than excision before demonstration of dysplastic change. This recommendation, however, is complicated by considerable data underscoring the limited accuracy of endoscopic forceps biopsy in detecting occult foci of carcinoma within ampullary adenoma. Thus, the optimal management of these lesions continues to generate considerable controversy. Indications for excision of an ampullary adenoma include treatment of immediate symptoms as well as prevention of malignant degeneration. Although pancreaticoduodenectomy has long been considered the standard procedure for ampullary carcinoma, much controversy exists regarding the procedure of choice for ampullary adenoma. Radical surgery (pancreaticoduodenectomy) possesses the advantage of low recurrence rate but at the expense of higher morbidity (25%-65%) and mortality (0%-10%). Local surgical excision (surgical ampullectomy) possesses the advantages of lower morbidity (0%-25%), essentially nil mortality, and possibly decreased length of hospital stay, but decidedly higher recurrence rates (generally 5%-30%) and the need for postoperative endoscopic surveillance. Snare ampullectomy is a newer endoscopic excisional technique for which limited data are available advantages compared with radical surgery mirror those of local surgical excision, with apparent lower mortality (0%-1%) and lower morbidity (12%). Presumed advantages compared with local surgical excision include lack of necessity for general anesthesia and laparotomy with comparable morbidity. Disadvantages seem to include limited availability of experienced operators, procedural complexity sometimes requiring adjunctive modalities such as fulguration, the need for multiple procedures (mean, 2.0 procedures) to effect complete excision, and recurrence rates approaching 30%, with a requirement for continued endoscopic surveillance. Ultimately, choice is driven by availability of local expertise, patient tolerance of or expected compliance with long-term endoscopic surveillance programs, presence or absence of coexisting familial polyposis syndromes, medical comorbidities, and overall life expectancy.