Solid pseudopapillary tumor of the pancreas: a case series of 26 consecutive patients. Solid pseudopapillary tumor (SPT) of the pancreas, which predominantly affects young women, is a relatively indolent entity with favorable prognosis. The aim of this study is to describe the clinicopathologic features and surgical management of this disease in our institution.A retrospective study of clinical data from 26 consecutive patients with SPT managed in a tertiary academic center between January 2002 and December 2007 was performed. Clinicopathologic factors were compared between benign and malignant cases to determine what features of the tumor could suggest malignant potential.The 26 cases included 22 female and 4 male patients, and the average age was 32.3 years (range 15 to 64). Clinical symptoms were nonspecific and included upper abdominal pain or discomfort, abdominal distention, and back pain. The neoplasm was localized in the pancreatic head/neck in 14 patients and in the body/tail in 12 patients. The median diameter of these lesions was 6.25 cm (range 2 to 15). All of the tumors-including 8 pancreaticoduodenectomies, 10 distal pancreatectomies, 6 local resections, 1 total pancreatectomy, and 1 central pancreatectomy-were resected successfully. No patient received chemotherapy or radiotherapy after surgery. All of the patients except 1 were alive at a median follow-up of 32.5 months (range 3 to 69). One of the 2 patients with malignant SPT, in whom Ki-67 immunoreactivity was >25%, developed local recurrence with liver metastasis 4 months and died 6 months after surgery. There were no significant associations between clinicopathologic factors and malignancy.SPT is a rare neoplasm with low malignant potential. Characteristic computed axial tomography and magnetic resonance imaging scans combined with age and sex profile should be sufficient for the decision to operate. Patients with malignant SPT should have careful follow-up. The high proliferative index assessed by immunohistochemical staining for Ki-67 may predict poor outcome of malignant SPT.