Papillary cystic neoplasm of the pancreas with liver metastasis coexisting with thyroid papillary carcinoma. Papillary cystic neoplasm of the pancreas is an uncommon neoplasm that usually appears to be benign or to have a very low potential for metastasis. We report a case of a patient with papillary and cystic neoplasm of the pancreas, which metastasized to the liver and concomitantly presented a stage I thyroid papillary carcinoma.The patient was a 38-year-old woman with a 12-year history of abdominal pain. She was first admitted to the hospital 3 years after symptoms began, and an exploratory laparotomy revealed a pancreatic cystic lesion that was diagnosed as a pancreatic pseudocyst, which drained by cystojejunosotomy. Nine years after onset, a stage I thyroid papillary carcinoma was excised. One-and-a-half years later, the patient was readmitted to the hospital for evaluation of a palpable abdominal mass. Abdominal computerized axial tomography disclosed a large pancreatic tumor and two nodular lesions of the liver. Papillary cystic neoplasm of the pancreas was diagnosed by cytologic, histologic, and ultrastructural studies of samples obtained directly from the pancreatic mass using fine-needle aspiration biopsy. The patient underwent palliative chemotherapy with mitomycin C, 4-epiadriamycin, and 5-fluorouracil. One year after this treatment began, a computerized axial tomography scan showed persistence of the pancreatic mass, with more prominent cystic spaces, increase in size and in number of the lesions in the liver, slight increase in the lesion of the right ovary, and a new lesion that also had solid and cystic areas in the spleen.The pathologic and clinical features of patients with papillary cystic neoplasm of the pancreas, based on tumoral extension, reveal localized tumors (88.2%), tumors with local infiltration or recurrence (6.2%), and tumors with metastasis at a distance (5.6%). Although strong similarities exist among the three groups, there are certain differences in age of presentation, previous clinical diagnosis of pseudocyst, and tumor location.