Superior vena cava thrombosis after in vitro fertilization. A 29-year-old female was admitted with the diagnosis of multiple deep vein thrombosis of the upper limbs and neck and pneumonia secondary to pulmonary embolism on the right side. Medical history revealed that in vitro fertilization with hormone stimulation had been carried out 5 weeks before. For ten days the patient had noticed a growing, painful swelling on the right side of her neck accompanied by difficulties in swallowing. Since this time she had experienced episodes of shortness of breath without chest pain. Clinical findings showed a soft and slightly painful swelling of the right side of the neck without dyspnoea or cyanosis at rest. Breath sounds were decreased over the right lower lung on auscultation.Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) confirmed complete obstruction of the subclavian and brachiocephalic vein on the right side and clots in the superior vena cava, left subclavian vein, bilateral internal jugular veins and the right axillar vein. Chest x-ray showed pleural effusion on the right side.As the seven-week pregnancy was found not to be viable anymore, fibinolysis with streptokinase was started under protection of a temporary cava filter. During the following hours the patient developed serious bleeding as a complication of this therapy and fibrinolysis had to be discontinued after 16 hours. In subsequent examinations the obstruction of the left internal jugular vein was unchanged but collaterals around the obstruction were noticed. The other veins affected were open, some with reduced flow. Several risk factors were found in the history of the patient such as smoking, immobilization, a positive family history, protein S deficiency and APC resistance. After 3 weeks of hospital therapy the patient was discharged under oral anticoagulation with coumarin.In vitro fertilization with hormonal stimulation may cause serious complications in patients with unknown coagulation disorders or with an ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. Risk factors for thromboembolism need to be ruled out carefully before starting the procedure.