Evaluation of red blood cell deformability and uterine blood flow in pregnant women with preeclampsia or iugr and reduced uterine blood flow following the intravenous application of magnesium. Red blood cells (RBC) deformability is one of the factors determining microcirculation. In preeclampsia (PE) and some cases of intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR), RBC deformability and, consequently, microcirculation appear to be impaired. Magnesium sulfate is administered to reduce the risk of seizures in PE. The aim of our study was to detect the effect of 24-hour intravenous (IV) magnesium on RBC deformability and on uterine artery blood flow in pregnant patients with preeclampsia or IUGR and pathologic uterine blood flow.Magnesium IV (1 g/h) was administered to 25 pregnant women with reduced uterine blood flow for a period of at least 24 hours. The RBC deformability was measured by uterine artery Doppler. Measurements were taken before the start of magnesium therapy and 24 h later. Magnesium plasma levels were measured at the same time.High plasma levels of magnesium improve RBC deformability from E = 0.109 (SD +/- 0.023) to E = 0.115 (SD +/- 0.021) after 24 h IV magnesium (p = 0.043). There is no correlation of E to the plasma magnesium level either before or after 24 h magnesium treatment. Blood volume flow in the uterine arteries increased significantly from 5.09 mL/s (SD +/- 3.03) to 10.02 mL/s (SD +/- 5.86) after 24 h magnesium (p = 0.0002). The differences in the resistance index do not significantly differ from 0 (p = 0.46).A high IV dosage of magnesium over a period of 24 hours dilates the uterine arteries of pregnant women with PE and/or IUGR, reduces uterine blood flow and improves the deformability of RBC. Both parameters enhance the oxygen supply to the fetus, a clinical parameter in these pregnancies. Thus magnesium might not only be effective as phrophylaxis against seizures but also in cases of IUGR with a reduced uterine blood flow. The clinically observed beneficial effect of magnesium in PE could be due to the improved blood supply for the fetus.