Sonography for deep venous thrombosis: current and future applications. Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) is a one of the most common problems facing the clinician in medicine today. It is often asymptomatic and goes undiagnosed with potentially fatal consequences. Ultrasound has become the "gold standard" in the diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis and with proper attention to technique sensitivity of this test is approximately 97%. An understanding of anatomy, pathophysiology, and risk factors is important. Thrombus formation usually begins beneath a valve leaflet below the knee. Approximately 40% will resolve spontaneously, 40% will become organized, and 20% will propagate. Whether or not a calf vein thrombus is identified, a repeat examination in 7 to 10 days is recommended in patients with risk factors or when deep venous thrombosis is suspected. The three main risk factors for thrombus formation are age greater than 75 years, previous history of deep venous thrombosis, and underlying malignancy. Other diagnostic studies include the contrast venogram, CT or MRI venogram, Tc99m Apcitide study, and the laboratory test D-Dimer. The D-Dimer study is being used more frequently as a screening test with 99% sensitivity in detecting thrombus, whether deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. However, specificity is only approximately 50% with many conditions leading to false-positive exams. Therefore, a negative examination is useful in avoiding other diagnostic studies, but a positive one may be misleading. Conditions that can lead to a false-positive examination include, but are not limited to diabetes, pregnancy, liver disease, heart conditions, recent surgery, and some gastrointestinal diseases. Like the sonogram, two negative D-Dimer studies a week apart exclude the diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis. Compression sonography with color Doppler remains the best overall test for deep venous thrombosis. It is easy to perform, less expensive than most "high tech" studies, can be performed as a portable examination, and is highly reliable when done properly.