Cognitive deficits in patients with antiphospholipid syndrome: association with clinical, laboratory, and brain magnetic resonance imaging findings. Antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) is a multisystem disorder characterized by arterial and venous thromboses, pregnancy morbidity, and various neuropsychiatric manifestations. Cognitive dysfunction in APS has been poorly recognized. We examined for the first time, to our knowledge, the presence of cognitive dysfunction in patients with APS and its association with clinical, laboratory, and cerebral magnetic resonance imaging characteristics.Sixty patients (39 with primary APS and 21 with systemic lupus erythematosus-related APS) and 60 healthy individuals matched for age, sex, and education were examined by means of a comprehensive 3-hour battery of neuropsychological tests. Twenty-three patients had a history of central nervous system involvement. Fifty-nine of 60 patients underwent brain magnetic resonance imaging at the time of neuropsychological assessment. A disease control group not fulfilling criteria for APS (15 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and 10 with rheumatoid arthritis) was also included. The demographic, clinical, and laboratory characteristics of patients were recorded.Twenty-five (42%) of the 60 patients with APS had cognitive deficits compared with 11 (18%) healthy control subjects (P = .005). No patient was diagnosed as having dementia. The most commonly involved cognitive domains were complex attention and verbal fluency. No difference was found in cognitive performance between patients with primary APS and those with systemic lupus erythematosus-related APS. No relationship was detected between cognitive dysfunction and prior central nervous system disease. We noted a significant association between cognitive dysfunction and livedo reticularis (P = .004) as well as between cognitive dysfunction and the presence of white matter lesions on the findings of brain magnetic resonance imaging (P=.01). No difference was detected in cognitive performance between the disease control group and healthy individuals (P=.86).Cognitive deficits may often be found among patients with APS, independent of any history of central nervous system involvement. Livedo reticularis and the presence of white matter lesions on brain magnetic resonance imaging are associated with an increased risk for cognitive dysfunction in APS.