Managing iliofemoral deep venous thrombosis of pregnancy with a strategy of thrombus removal is safe and avoids post-thrombotic morbidity. Extensive deep venous thrombosis (DVT) during pregnancy is usually treated with anticoagulation alone, risking significant post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS) in young patients. Catheter-directed thrombolysis (CDT) and operative venous thrombectomy have been safely and effectively used in nonpregnant patients, demonstrating significant reduction in post-thrombotic morbidity. This report reviews short- and long-term outcomes of 13 patients with extensive DVT of pregnancy treated with a strategy of thrombus removal.From 1999 to 2013, 13 patients with iliofemoral DVT during pregnancy were offered CDT, pharmacomechanical thrombolysis (PMT), and/or venous thrombectomy. Gestational age ranged from 8 to 34 weeks. Fetal monitoring was performed throughout hospitalization. Radiation exposure was minimized with pelvic lead shields, focal fluoroscopy, and limited angiographic runs. Follow-up included objective vein evaluation using venous duplex and PTS assessment using the Villalta scale.CDT and/or PMT were used in 11 patients. Two patients underwent venous thrombectomy alone, and one patient had operative thrombectomy as an adjunct to CDT and PMT. Each patient had complete or near-complete thrombus resolution and rapid improvement in clinical symptoms. Eight of 11 having CDT or PMT underwent venoplasty and stenting of the involved iliac veins. Twelve of the 13 delivered healthy infants at term. One patient opted for termination of her pregnancy. Mean patient and gestational ages were 26 years and 26 weeks, respectively. Mean follow-up was 1.3 years, with only one recurrence. Duplex ultrasonography demonstrated patent veins in all but one patient and normal valve function in 10 patients. Eleven patients had Villalta scores <5 (considered normal), with a mean score of 0.7.Extensive DVT of pregnancy can be effectively and safely treated with a strategy of thrombus removal, resulting in a patent venous system, normal valve function in many, prevention of PTS, and reduction in recurrence.