Thrombocytopenia following intracervical prostaglandin priming. Thrombocyte aggregation with normochromic anaemia occurred in a gravida III of 27 years of age with sonographically confirmed foetal hydrocephalus, after prostaglandin E2 cervical priming. The authors discuss the differential diagnostic possibilities, but the actual genesis of the changes remains unclear. Hence, it is recommended to check with particular care especially in induction of abortion, the coagulation system with the thrombocytes, over and above the well-known prostaglandin side effects. Special attention must be paid to the occurrence of allergic reactions, and it must always be borne in mind that induction of abortion after the 14th week of gestation is a risky matter (1).Because of a hydrocephalic fetus, the 27 year old mother opted for abortion.  This was done in the 21st week of pregnancy by ordinary intracervical application of 0.25 mg prostaglandin e2 gel.  30 minutes later the patient began to complain of nausea and dyspnea.  Laboratory analysis revealed leukocytosis  of 20800/ml and thrombocytopenia of 22000/ml, down from 150,000 ml before the procedure.  There were no clinical indications of bleeding.  The leukocytosis lasted 2 days and thrombocytopenia roughly 6 days.  Treatment included administration of acetylsalicylic acid 3 x 0.5 g and dipyrimadol tablets 3 x 25 mg/day.  After thrombocyte count was normalized, abortion was induced by means of spasmolysis and oxytocin i.v.  In this case partial resorption of the prostaglandin indicates a systemic effect.  Since the half life of E and F group prostaglandins is usually 1-3 minutes, and it is almost completely eliminated after passing through the liver and lungs, a direct prostaglandin effect leading to thrombocyte aggregation lasting several days is unlikely.  Absence of thrombocyte antibodies point to a drug induced immune process in which the prostaglandin molecule could appear as a hapten.  Ultimately the thrombocyte aggregation described here and normochromic anemia are of unclear origin.  Changes in the patients' coagulation system are probably of no functional relevance.  The initial leukocytosis must be considered a nonspecific immediate reaction.