Psoas abscess related to spontaneous abortion, intra-uterine contraceptive device and curettage. This case report presents a patient with a psoas abscess related to a dilatation and (aspiration) curettage for an incomplete abortion with an IUD. Psoas abscess is extremely rare in obstetrics and gynecology and a life threatening condition. It is important to recognize the clinical presentation. Psoas abscess should be suspected in patients presenting with fever, pain in the leg, thigh, or low back region. Whether antibiotic prophylaxis in abortion curettage may prevent this and other complications is discussed.In the Netherlands a 34-year old pregnant women presented at the obstetrics and gynecology department of OLVG Hospital in Amsterdam with uterine bleeding.  She was at 11 weeks gestation and had an IUD in situ. A vaginal ultrasound revealed that the pregnancy was intact so the physicians could not remove the IUD.  She returned 12 days later because she was suffering from an incomplete spontaneous abortion.  The physicians removed the IUD and performed an aspiration curettage.  They did not administer antibiotics.  10 days after the operation the woman suffered worsening pain in the right thigh and leg and had difficulty walking, a fever, and general sickness.  She was breathing very rapidly. Repeated vaginal ultrasounds revealed that she had retained the conceptus.  The physicians prescribed respiratory support and antibiotics (claforan, gentamicin, and metronidazole).  Blood culture indicated Staphylococcus aureus.  Computer tomography revealed a retroperitoneal abscess at the level of the right iliopsoas muscle near the os ilium and the sacro-iliac joint.  The physicians performed an extraperitoneal incision and drainage of the abscess and a repeat aspiration curettage.  Staphylococcus aureus was isolated from all abscess samples, the conceptus, the cervix, the vagina, the urine, and the sputum.  The physicians continued gentamicin and metronidazole treatment.  They dismissed her after a complete recovery 16 days after the 2nd aspiration curettage.  Possible complications of psoas abscess are sepsis, pulmonary embolism, hemorrhage, and bowel obstruction. Antibiotic prophylaxis in abortion curettage may prevent late sequelae, such as psoas abscess and pelvic inflammatory disease.