Intraspinal meningiomas: review of 54 cases with discussion of poor prognosis factors and modern therapeutic management. Intraspinal meningiomas account for 25%-46% of primary spinal cord tumors. Technical advances in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and surgical procedures (ultrasonic cavitation aspirators [CUSA], lasers) have brought about better clinical results. In spite of these new techniques, a small percentage of patients still present with poor postoperative results and/or a recurrence. The authors tried to determine which data could influence clinical outcome and what therapeutic modalities could limit recurrence rate.We reviewed 54 patients who from 1963 to 1994, each had surgery for an intraspinal meningioma. There were 43 females and 11 males, aged 8 to 85 years old. Thirty-six (66.6%) patients were ambulatory on admission only 2 presented with a paraplegia. Tumor location was cervical in 10 cases, thoracic in 43 cases, lumbar in 1 case. Forty-seven tumors were intradural, 5 epidural, 2 epidural and intradural. Thirty patients underwent a myelography, 10 a computed tomography (CT) scan, and 14 an MRI. Twenty-three spinal angiographies were performed before surgery. Complete removal was achieved in 50 patients (92.6%). Ultrasonic cavitation was used 10 times for debulking the tumor, and laser was used in 12 surgical procedures to perform hemostasis of the meningioma and to coagulate the dural attachment.The majority of the neoplasms were meningothelial (N = 24) or psammomatous (N = 11). No mortality was noted. Morbidity concerned five patients: two pulmonary embolisms, one definitive paraplegia, one transient deficit, and one epidural suppuration, which necessitated a second operation. Mean follow-up was 28 months. Final functional results were very good in 85% and good in 13% one patient (2%) worsened. Two recurrences were noted: one with clinical signs and the other with only CT-scan modifications. Both patients underwent complementary radiotherapy.The authors discuss factors influencing functional results. Sex, pregnancy, pathologic diagnosis, and recurrence do not seem to have any influence. Calcification of the meningioma, as well as an anterior dural attachment, are pejorative factors. They insist on preoperative angiography and point out the advantage of using a CUSA and/or a laser to debulk and coagulate the tumor itself and its dural attachment. They propose radiation therapy as an adjuvant treatment or an alternative to reoperation, which could be hazardous for some patients when, for instance, a recurrence is located in a critical area or when the patient's general status is fragile.