The best in 2000 on thrombosis. It is nearly impossible to follow and integrate all the new information in each subspeciality of cardiology. In the last months, important data has been published which may change clinical practice. In this domain, over half the cases of suspected coronary chest pain would only require a very short stay in a chest pain unit. The history, an accurate evaluation of symptoms, the application of Bayesian analysis, ECG interpretation and serum troponine measurement, associated with a degree of clinical experience, will allow orientation of the patient to a coronary care unit or hospital discharge (with possible out-patient referral). Patients with true unstable angina will no longer be treated by continuous intravenous injection of non-fractionated heparin because, in theory and in practice, this has been replaced with subcutaneous LMW heparin.... On the other hand, the electric syringe will continue to be required for the integration of the anti-GPIIB-IIIA for the treatment of unstable angina after the recommendations published concomitantly in the United States and Europe. This type of patient, especially with a "positive" troponine, will probably not be kept waiting long before referral to the catheter laboratory for coronary angiography and revascularisation. The long-term results of the FRISC II trial are confirmed by an even earlier invasive approach (Tactics-Timi 18) using anti-GPIIb-IIIa. In the first hours, and independently of other older prognostic factors, it will be possible to "predict or compare" the risk of coronary recurrence based on the results of certain biological "markers". In many centres, cases with ST elevation on the ECG could well be included in a phase III "medical protocol", associating a half-dose thrombolytic and an anti-GPIIb-IIIa. Finally, patients who will have been admitted to the chest pain unit with a suspected pulmonary embolism, for example because they had not been treated prophylactically with aspirin before hip surgery, will probably have the choice, after d-dimer measurement, between pulmonary scintigraphy and helicoidal CT scan. If the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism is confirmed, a single subcutaneous injection of LMW heparin could replace the conventional continuous intravenous injection of heparin. The earliest possible oral anticancer ... pardon me I anticoagulant treatment should be prescribed and explained.