Protein S and C alterations in acutely ill patients. Protein C, a potent vitamin K-dependent protein activated by an endothelial cell cofactor, thrombomodulin, has anticoagulant and profibrinolytic activity. Free protein S, a cofactor for protein C, potentiates protein C activity at the endothelial cell surface. Pulmonary thromboemboli are a consistent finding in adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). To determine if protein S or protein C were affected by widespread endothelial cell damage in ARDS, we measured bound and free protein S levels and protein C antigenic and functional levels in 18 patients with acute lung injury, 6 critically ill patients without lung history, and 22 normal subjects. Free (PS:F) and bound (PS:Ag) protein S and protein C antigen (PC:Ag) levels were measured using an enzyme-linked immunoassay and protein C function (PC:Fn) by measuring its anticoagulant activity. We found a significant decrease in bound and free protein S levels of both patient groups in comparison to normal and a shift toward the inactive, bound protein S form. In addition, a significant decrease in free protein S compared to bound protein S in both patient groups was observed. While both PC:Ag and PC:Fn were significantly reduced compared to normal, the PC:Fn was significantly and severely decreased out of proportion to the PC:Ag in both patient groups. There was no difference between those with and without lung injury for both protein S and protein C. Analyzed according to etiology of lung injury, there was no difference in the bound and free protein S, nor in PC:Ag and PC:Fn levels between patients with sepsis and trauma. However, there were significant decreases in both protein S and protein C levels compared with normal subjects. Levels of both PS and PC levels in patients who survived did not differ from those who died. In summary, our data show that both protein S and C are markedly deranged in acutely ill patients who suffered from either sepsis or trauma, and these changes are independent of lung injury. The marked reductions in functional activity of PS and PC may be contributing factors to the thromboembolic complications often observed in these patients.