Diagnosis of clinical samples spotted on FTA cards using PCR-based methods. The broad clinical presentation of Leishmaniasis makes the diagnosis of current and past cases of this disease rather difficult. Differential diagnosis is important because diseases caused by other aetiologies and a clinical spectrum similar to that of leishmaniasis (e.g. leprosy, skin cancers and tuberculosis for CL malaria and schistosomiasis for VL) are often present in endemic areas of endemicity. Presently, a variety of methods have been developed and tested to aid the identification and diagnosis of Leishmania. The advent of the PCR technology has opened new channels for the diagnosis of leishmaniasis in a variety of clinical materials. PCR is a simple, rapid procedure that has been adapted for diagnosis of leishmaniasis. A range of tools is currently available for the diagnosis and identification of leishmaniasis and Leishmania species, respectively. However, none of these diagnostic tools are examined and tested using samples spotted on FTA cards. Three different PCR-based approaches were examined including: kDNA minicircle, Leishmania 18S rRNA gene and PCR-RFLP of Intergenic region of ribosomal protein. PCR primers were designed that sit within the coding sequences of genes (relatively well conserved) but which amplify across the intervening intergenic sequence (relatively variable). These were used in PCR-RFLP on reference isolates of 10 of the most important Leishmania species: L. donovani, L. infantum, L. major & L. tropica. Digestion of PCR products with restriction enzymes produced species-specific restriction patterns allowed discrimination of reference isolates. The kDNA minicircle primers are highly sensitive in diagnosis of both bone marrow and skin smears from FTA cards. Leishmania 18S rRNA gene conserved region is sensitive in identification of bone marrow smear but less sensitive in diagnosing skin smears. The intergenic nested PCR-RFLP using P5 & P6 as well as P1 & P2 newly designed primers showed high level of reproducibility and sensitivity. Though, it was less sensitive than kDNA minicircle primers, but easily discriminated between Leishmania species.