Evaluation of enzyme-linked immunosorbent and alternative assays for detection of HIV antibodies using panels of Brazilian sera. Sera from 472 Brazilian subjects, confirmed to be either positive or negative for HIV antibodies and comprising the total clinical spectrum of HIV infection, were utilized in the evaluation of six commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA), as well as of four alternative assays, namely indirect immunofluorescence (IIF), passive hemagglutination (PHA), dot blot and Karpas AIDS cell test. The sensitivities ranged from 100% (Abbott and Roche ELISA) to 84.2% (PHA) and the specificities ranged from 99.3% (IIF) to 80.2% (PHA). The sensitivity and specificity of the PHA and the sensitivity of the Karpas cell test were significantly lower than those of the other tests. Although the IFF and dot blot had good sensitivities and specificities, the six ELISA were more attractive than those tests when other parameters such as ease of reading and duration of assay were considered.6 commercially available ELISA kits and 4 new Brazilian made methods for detecting HIV were compared on 2 panels of sera, 292 from AIDS patients, HIV-positives and negatives, and 180 sera from asymptomatic blood donors, including 90 HIV-positives.  The kits tested were 5 ELISAs:  Roche Diagnostica (Basel), Hoechst Enzygnostic (Sao Paulo), Virgo Electronuclionics (Columbia MD), Organon Teknika (Boxtel, Netherlands), Salck Industria e Comercio de Produtos Biologicos (Sao Paulo), and a passive hemagglutination test, (Salck Ind), and indirect immunofluorescence IIF (Virgo electronucleonics, Columbia), a dot blot (Embrabio, Empressa Brasiliera de Biotecnologia Ltda, Sao Paolo) and Karpas AIDS cell test, Fujichemical Industries Ltd (Chokeiji, Takaoka, Japan).  The sensitivities ranged from 84.2% to 100% with no significant differences in sera from panel A. In panel B, the sensitivity of the PHA test was significantly lower than that of the ELISA and the AIDS cell tests.  The specificities of the PHA and the AIDS cell tests were also lower than that of the ELISA.  The costs of all the tests were similar, but the equipment needs varied.  The simplest tests to perform were the dot blot assay, PHA and Karpas AIDS cell test.  The Hoechst ELISA is simpler because it does not require dilution of the serum.  The dot takes too long for use in a blood bank, 16-18 hours.  Immunofluorescence tests would be practical in countries already screening blood for malaria or Changes disease.  Brazil is not doing so on a large scale due to lack of political will.  In countries with high incidence of malaria, Chagas disease, leishmania, hepatitis and leprosy, HIV test need to be tested on local sera because of possible B cell activation.