Transient and ectopic expression of lumican by acinar cells in L-arginine-induced acute pancreatitis. Lumican is a member of a small leucine-rich proteoglycan family. We previously found that lumican mRNA and its protein were ectopically and highly expressed in acinar cells in chronic pancreatitis (CP)-like lesions close to pancreatic cancer cells. CP-like lesions are characterized by acinar and ductal-ductular cell proliferation with expanding fibrosis. This finding suggests that lumican is ectopically synthesized by acinar cells under chronic inflammatory conditions and plays a role in fibrosis of the pancreas. However, the expression and role of lumican in acute inflammatory changes of the pancreas are not completely elucidated. In the present study, we aim to clarify whether lumican mRNA and its protein are expressed in exocrine or endocrine components in acute pancreatitis (AP). For experimental AP, Wistar rats received an intraperitoneal injection of L-arginine. Western blot analysis showed an intense 50-kDa band corresponding to the lumican protein in normal and L-arginine-treated rat pancreas. After L-arginine injection, three intense bands at 42, 57, and 92 kDa were detected on day 1. Immunohistochemically, the lumican protein was localized in ductal and a few centroacinar cells in the normal pancreas. After L-arginine injection, an immature fibrosis with fragmented and loose collagen fibers was observed in AP on day 4 and lumican immunoreactivity was detected in the collagen fibers. Lumican mRNA was faintly detected in islet cells in the normal pancreas, but it was strongly expressed in acinar and islet cells on day 1. Furthermore, lumican mRNA was expressed in many proliferating fibroblasts on day 4 by in situ hybridization. These findings indicate that lumican is transiently synthesized by acinar cells and fibroblasts in AP. Lumican proteins synthesized by acinar cells, islet cells, and fibroblasts may contribute to immature and transient fibrosis of AP.