Effect of a pneumoperitoneum on systemic cytokine levels, bacterial translocation, and organ complications in a rat model of severe acute pancreatitis with infected necrosis. Infection of pancreatic necrosis (IPN) is strongly associated with sepsis and multiple organ dysfunction and is an absolute indication for surgery. Patients with IPN are critically ill at the time of surgery and may benefit from a minimally invasive approach with reduced surgical trauma. Recently, several minimally invasive necrosectomy techniques have been reported. However, the effects and potential dangers of a pneumoperitoneum in IPN cases are unknown. This study aimed to determine the effects of a pneumoperitoneum on systemic cytokine levels, bacterial translocation, and systemic organ complications in a rat model of IPN.For this study, IPN was induced in Wistar rats using retrograde intraductal infusion of 3% taurocholate. After 8 h, the animals were subjected to either laparoscopy (pneumoperitoneum at 8 mmHg) or laparotomy for 1 h and killed after 1 or 3 h. Severe acute pancreatitis with IPN was proved by serum amylase and lipase, histology, tissue activity of myeloperoxidase (MPO), and bacteriology. Systemic levels for interleukin-10 (IL-10), IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and lipopolysaccarides were determined by enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA). Systemic organ damage and dysfunction were evaluated using MPO activity (lung), serum creatinine (kidney), and serum aminotransferases (liver).Necrotizing pancreatitis developed in all the animals. Most of the animals (85%) had proven infected necrosis. Elevated cytokine levels and deteriorated organ parameters demonstrated systemic inflammation and organ failure. Although there was a tendency toward a higher level of proinflammatory cytokines after laparotomy, there were no significant differences between laparotomy and laparoscopy. Furthermore, these alterations were not accompanied by any differences in bacterial translocation (lipopolysaccharides), systemic organ damage, or mortality between laparoscopy and laparotomy.In the current model of infected pancreatic necrosis, a pneumoperitoneum did not result in increased cytokine release or bacterial translocation. However, the putative advantage of less surgical trauma with the laparoscopic approach did not play a significant role in the setting of severe acute pancreatitis with IPN.