Ascitic fluid and serum from rats with acute pancreatitis injure rat pancreatic tissues and alter the expression of heat shock protein 60. Acute pancreatitis (AP) is an inflammatory process in which cytokines and chemokines are involved. After onset, extrapancreatic stimuli can induce the expression of cytokines in pancreatic acinar cells, thereby amplifying this inflammatory loop. To further determine the role and mechanism of irritating agents in the pathogenesis of AP, rat pancreatic tissues were stimulated with ascitic fluid (APa) and serum (APs) from rats with AP or with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In addition, the alteration of heat shock protein 60 (HSP60) expression was evaluated. Rat pancreas was removed and meticulously snipped to fragments. The snips were cultured for up to 48 h. During this period, the tissue viability as well as amylase and TNF-alpha levels in the supernatant and the HSP60 expression in the pancreatic tissue before and after stimulation by APa, APs, and LPS were assayed time-dependently. At different time-points during the culture, the viability and the amylase activity in the pancreatic tissue remained largely stable. After stimulation with APa, APs, or LPS for 1 h, the pancreatic tissues showed some damage, and this was followed by a sharp decrease in the viability accompanied by increased levels of amylase and TNF-alpha in the culture medium 2 or 4 h after stimulation (p < 0.05). In contrast, both the HSP60 mRNA and protein levels had a relatively high expression in the freshly prepared tissue fragments (0 h). As the culturing period was extended, the expression of HSP60 mRNA decreased only slightly at the same time, the HSP60 protein levels decreased over a prolonged culture time, significantly so from 12 through 48 h (p < 0.05). After stimulation with APs, APa, or LPS, both the expression of HSP60 mRNA and protein in the tissue fragments increased slightly at 1 h and decreased significantly thereafter at 2 and 4 h (p < 0.05). APa, APs, or LPS induce injuries on isolated pancreatic tissues, accompanied by an altered HSP60 expression pattern in a time-dependent manner.