Ischemic etiopathogenesis as the possible origin of post-double baloon enteroscopy pancreatitis. A porcine model study. The aim is to evaluate the pancreatic vascular-ischemic effects related to double balloon enteroscopy in the porcine model as a possible etiopathogenesis of post-enteroscopic pancreatitis. For this reason we carry out two independent experiments in a porcine animal model. In the first arm protocol (group I), 10 animals underwent 90 minutes of oral enteroscopy with 7 days follow-up.The levels of amylase, lipase and C-reactive protein were measured at T0 basal-T1 -90 min, T2-24, T3-7 days. Also we perform upper gastrointestinal endoscopy in a control group. At 7 days, the animals of experimental protocol-I had their pancreases removed for a pathological and immunohistochemical study to evaluate vascular epithelial growth factor (VEGF) expression.The second experimental protocol in this study aims to evaluate possible changes in vascular topography due to the double balloon enteroscopy (DBE). Group-II (10 animals) underwent oral enteroscopy and selective angiography of the cranial mesenteric artery and celiac trunk. None of the group I or control group animals presented pancreatitis, although the biochemical results for group-I showed increases in the levels of amylase, lipase and C reactive protein at 24 hours. The microscopic study for group-I showed pancreatic necrotic foci and positive VEGF expression, though these changes were not expressed in the control group.These foci were found in 50% of the group I animals and in relation to the total of the parenchyma were quantified at 6% of the pancreas. The results for group-II showed that the enteroscopy caused mobilization of the mesenteric vascular axis, with signs of both intestinal and pancreatic hypoperfusion. The conclusions of this study are that, after enteroscopy in the porcine model, pancreatic necrotic foci are produced, in addition to ischemic phenomena causing VEGF expression. This could be related to episodes of visceral hypoperfusion caused by vascular alterations on a topographic level. This can be related to the possible ischemic etiopathogenesis described for post-enteroscopic pancreatitis.