Therapeutic regimens in acute experimental hemorrhagic pancreatitis. Effects of hydration, oxygenation, peritoneal lavage, and a potent protease inhibitor. In this study we evaluated the effects of hydration, oxygenation, peritoneal lavage, and the protease inhibitor gabexate mesilate in acute hemorrhagic pancreatitis induced by feeding mice a choline-deficient, ethionine-supplemented diet. Different groups of mice were kept at various concentrations of O2 (21%, 35%, and 45% O2), or were treated by either s.c. injections or i.p. injections of electrolyte solution at various doses (0, 4, 6, or 8 ml/day). Further groups were treated either with i.p. lavage, lavage with 1.5 mg/ml of gabexate, or i.p. injections of 100 mg/kg of gabexate without lavage. The potential benefits of the various regimens were assessed by measuring survival, various biochemical and histologic features, and alterations in hematocrit, pH, and blood gases. Increasing O2 concentrations reversed hypoxemia and acidosis, but had no effect on biochemical or morphologic alterations and did not improve survival. However, hydration by s.c. fluid markedly improved survival and normalized the hematocrit without having major effects on biochemical or morphologic alterations. Intraperitoneal fluid did not improve survival. Gabexate injections without lavage had a slight effect on survival and serum amylase concentration and very little effect on histology. Lavage without gabexate had a greater effect on survival, serum amylase, and histology. Addition of gabexate to the lavage fluid increased the beneficial effect of lavage. Increases in amylase and activated trypsin in ascites were markedly reduced by lavage and even more so by lavage with addition of gabexate. We conclude that sufficient hydration appears to be an important factor in supportive care for severe acute pancreatitis, whereas oxygenation without sufficient hydration has no major benefit. Peritoneal lavage with gabexate showed the greatest benefit of the various regimens for acute severe pancreatitis and is worthy of clinical trials.