Hemorrhagic pancreatitis. An experience with 68 patients with hemorrhagic pancreatitis identified at operation or autopsy is reported. Sixteen of the patients were subjected to operation, and 6 survived after celiotomy and peritoneal irrigation. There were no survivors in the unoperated group. Death when the pancreas is hemorrhagic and due to pancreatitis occurs an average of 10 days after the onset of symptoms or within 7 days of hospitalization. In eight patients who presented in coma, the diagnosis was not established before death. Early recognition of patients with hemorrhagic pancreatitis can be facilitated by the routine use of amylase and methemalbumin determinations and peritoneal lavage. Translocation of large volumes of albumin-rich fluid from the intravascular compartment to the retroperitoneum and pleural and abdominal cavities is in part responsible for many of the signs, symptoms, and complications of hemorrhagic pancreatitis. These include hemoconcentration, hypotension, tachycardia, tachypnea, ascites, abdominal distress, respiratory insufficiency, and renal failure. Adequate initial resuscitation and intensive follow-up are probably the most important elements in the management of patients with hemorrhagic pancreatitis. Careful monitoring of fluid and electrolytes and blood gases is required to avoid shock and renal and pulmonary failure. The need for careful monitoring is emphasized by the number of our patients in whom inadequacies of fluid replacement and ventilation were often not appreciated until the patient was in extremis from shock or respiratory or renal failure. Antibiotics are indicated in patients with biliary tract disease and penetrating ulcer in whom the risk of secondary infection is considerable. Associated diseases that initiated pancreatitis and that in themselves may be life-threatening, such as acute cholecystitis or cholangitis, should be promptly treated by operation. Diagnostic and therapeutic lavage are justified in the treatment of hemorrhagic pancreatitis. Resection of the necrotic pancreas should be considered when the patient fails to improve after lavage and nonoperative resuscitation.