Group A streptococcal antigen-specific T lymphocytes in guttate psoriatic lesions. A strong association exists between guttate psoriasis and group A, beta-haemolytic streptococcal infections. To demonstrate the presence of streptococcal-specific T cells in psoriatic skin, T-cell lines (TLs) were established from biopsies of lesions from five patients with guttate psoriasis, and compared with TLs from five patients with eczema, five with lichen planus, two with pityriasis rosea and three with nickel contact dermatitis. TLs from purified protein derivative (PPD)-induced delayed hypersensitivity sites in three normal individuals were also studied. All five of the psoriatic TLs responded in a proliferation assay to heat-killed isolates of group A streptococci, compared with only one eczema, two lichen planus and one pityriasis rosea. The response of one nickel contact dermatitis and two PPD TLs to group A streptococci was markedly less than to nickel and PPD, respectively. One of the psoriatic TLs was cloned in the presence of type 5 streptococcal M protein. The nine clones obtained were all CD3+, CD4+, CD45RO+, TCR alpha, beta+, gamma, delta-. However, they were all unreactive with antibodies to TCR V beta 5, 6, 8 or 12. Eight of the nine clones reacted, to a varying extent, to one or two of three preparations of group A streptococci expressing different M proteins. The streptococcal response of four consistently reactive clones from this patient was HLA-DR-restricted and inhibited by anti-HLA-DR antibody in a dose-dependent manner. On stimulation these four clones secreted high levels of gamma-interferon and detectable levels of IL-2, IL-10 and granulocyte/macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) depending upon the nature of the stimulus, but no IL-4 or TNF-alpha production was detected. This study has demonstrated, for the first time, that T lymphocytes specific for group A streptococcal antigens can be consistently isolated from guttate psoriatic lesions. The role of streptococcal-specific T cells in the pathogenesis of psoriasis remains to be determined.