Preferential recognition of human myocardial antigens by T lymphocytes from rheumatic heart disease patients. Acute rheumatic fever (ARF) and rheumatic heart disease (RHD) are autoimmune sequelae of upper respiratory infections with group A streptococci (GAS). To gain a better understanding of the pathogenesis of these diseases, we examined the in vitro proliferative responses of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from RHD patients to human myocardial proteins in a T-cell Western assay. A number of myocardial proteins fractionated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis were recognized by PBMC from both patients and controls. However, PBMC from a significant percentage of RHD patients (40%) responded to a discrete band of myocardial proteins migrating with an apparent molecular mass of 50 to 54 kDa while none of the control subject PBMC responded to this protein band (P < or = 0.0001). To further investigate the link between infections with GAS and autoimmune carditis, we studied the proliferative responses of PBMC from patients and controls to myocardial proteins before and after in vitro stimulation of the cells with opsonized GAS isolated from ARF patients. Priming of PBMC with rheumatogenic GAS caused the percentage of RHD patients responding to the 50- to 54-kDa myocardial proteins to increase from 43 to 90% (P < or = 0.0284). By contrast, PBMC from control subjects failed to recognize the 50- to 54-kDa myocardial proteins even after stimulation with the opsonized streptococci (P < or = 0.0001). The assay sensitivity was increased from 40 to 90% after priming of a patient's cells with opsonized GAS, but the positive predictive value was 100% in both unprimed and primed cultures. Antibodies generated to partially purified 50- to 54-kDa myocardial proteins did not cross-react with either streptococcal homogenates, purified M protein, myosin, laminin, or vimentin, suggesting a lack of cross-reactivity at the humoral level. This study suggests that the 50- to 54-kDa myocardial proteins contain a putative antigen that is preferentially recognized by T cells from RHD patients and demonstrates that exposure to streptococcal antigens enhances the ability of patients to recognize these proteins.