Streptococcal protein H forms soluble complement-activating complexes with IgG, but inhibits complement activation by IgG-coated targets. Protein H, a surface protein of Streptococcus pyogenes interacting with the constant Fc region of IgG, is known to be released from the streptococcal surface by a cysteine proteinase produced by the bacteria. Poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis and rheumatic fever are conditions in which immune complexes and autoimmune mechanisms have been suggested to play pathogenetic roles. The present study demonstrates that addition of protein H to human serum produces complement activation with dose-dependent cleavage of C3. The activation was IgG-dependent and the result of complexes formed between IgG and protein H. These complexes were size heterogeneous with molecular masses of 400 kDa to 1.4 MDa. Using complement-depleted serum reconstituted with complement proteins, the activation by protein H was found to be dependent of the classical, but independent of the alternative pathway of complement. In contrast to results of experiments based on soluble protein H.IgG complexes, complement activation was inhibited by protein H when IgG was immobilized on a surface. The interaction between C1q and immunoglobulins represents the first step in the activation of the classical pathway, and protein H efficiently inhibited the binding of C1q to IgG immobilized on polyacrylamide beads. Protein H reduced C3 deposition on the IgG-coated beads and inhibited immune hemolysis of IgG-sensitized erythrocytes. Finally, significantly less C3 was deposited on the surface of protein H-expressing wild-type streptococci than on the surface of isogenic mutant bacteria devoid of protein H. The results demonstrate that protein H.IgG complexes released from the streptococcal surface can produce complement breakdown at the sites of infection, whereas complement activation on bacterial surfaces is inhibited. This should have important implications for host-parasite relationships. In addition, soluble protein H.IgG complexes might contribute to immunological complications of streptococcal infections.