Effect of cGMP analogues and protein kinase G blocker on secretory activity, apoptosis and the cAMP/protein kinase A system in porcine ovarian granulosa cells in vitro. The aim of the present study was to examine the role of cGMP-dependent intracellular mechanisms in control of ovarian functions. In the first series of experiments we studied the effects of the cGMP analogues 8-pCPT-cGMP (0.001-100 nM), Rp-8-pCPT-cGMPS (0. 01-100 nM), Rp-8-Br-cGMPS (0.01-100 nM), and Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS (0.01-100 nM) on the release of progesterone, insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) and oxytocin by cultured porcine granulosa cells. In a second series of experiments, the effects of Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS (50 nM) and KT5822 (100 ng/ml), specific inhibitor of cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG), on cAMP, PKA, oxytocin and the occurrence of apoptosis in cultured cells were compared. The release of hormones and IGF-I into the culture medium was evaluated using a RIA, while the percentage of cells containing visible oxytocin, cAMP, as well as the regulatory and catalytic subunits of PKA was assessed using immunocytochemistry. Occurrence of apoptosis in these cells was detected using the TUNEL method. The stimulatory (8-pCPT-cGMP and Rp-8-pCPT-cGMPS), inhibitory (Rp-8-Br-cGMPS) and biphasic (Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS) effect of cGMP analogues on progesterone release was observed. All cGMP analogues used suppressed IGF-I release. All cGMP analogues decreased oxytocin release, but 8-pCPT-cGMP and Rp-8-Br-cGMPS, when given at low doses (0.01-0.1 and 1-10 nM, respectively) stimulated oxytocin output. Both, Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS and KT5822 increased the rate of incidence of apoptosis and percentage of cells containing immunoreactive cAMP. Both Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS and KT5822 decreased the proportion of cells containing immunoreactive oxytocin and regulatory subunit of PAK KT5822, but not Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS, increased the number of cells containing catalytic subunit of PKA. The present observations suggest the involvement of cGMP and PKG in control of the production of steroid, nonapeptide hormone, growth factor, cAMP and cAMP-dependent PKA, as well as the induction of apoptosis in porcine ovarian cells.