Validation of a model of left ventricular segmentation for interpretation of SPET myocardial perfusion images. Several models of left ventricular segmentation have been developed that assume a standard coronary artery distribution, and are currently used for interpretation of single-photon emission tomography (SPET) myocardial perfusion imaging. This approach has the potential for incorrect assignment of myocardial segments to vascular territories, possibly over- or underestimating the number of vessels with significant coronary artery disease (CAD). We therefore sought to validate a 17-segment model of myocardial perfusion by comparing the predefined coronary territory assignment with the actual angiographically derived coronary distribution. We examined 135 patients who underwent both coronary angiography and stress SPET imaging within 30 days. Individualized coronary distribution was determined by review of the coronary angiograms and used to identify the coronary artery supplying each of the 17 myocardial segments of the model. The actual coronary distribution was used to assess the accuracy of the assumed coronary distribution of the model. The sensitivities and specificities of stress SPET for detection of CAD in individual coronary arteries and the classification regarding perceived number of diseased coronary arteries were also compared between the two coronary distributions (actual and assumed). The assumed coronary distribution corresponded to the actual coronary anatomy in all but one segment (#3). The majority of patients (80%) had 14 or more concordant segments. Sensitivities and specificities of stress SPET for detection of CAD in the coronary territories were similar, with the exception of the RCA territory, for which specificity for detection of CAD was better for the angiographically derived coronary artery distribution than for the model. There was 95% agreement between assumed and angiographically derived coronary distributions in classification to single- versus multi-vessel CAD. Reassignment of a single segment (segment #3) from the LCX to the LAD territory further improved the model's fit with the anatomic data. It is concluded that left ventricular segmentation using a model with assumed coronary artery distribution is valid for interpretation of SPET myocardial perfusion imaging.