Imaging gliomas with positron emission tomography and single-photon emission computed tomography. Over the last two decades the large volume of research involving various brain tracers has shed invaluable light on the pathophysiology of cerebral neoplasms. Yet the question remains as to how best to incorporate this newly acquired insight into the clinical context. Thallium is the most studied radiotracer with the longest track record. Many, but not all studies, show a relationship between (201)Tl uptake and tumor grade. Due to the overlap between tumor uptake and histologic grades, (201)Tl cannot be used as the sole noninvasive diagnostic or prognostic tool in brain tumor patients. However, it may help differentiating a high-grade tumor recurrence from radiation necrosis. MIBI is theoretically a better imaging agent than (201)Tl but it has not convincingly been shown to differentiate tumors according to grade. MDR-1 gene expression as demonstrated by MIBI does not correlate with chemoresistance in high grade gliomas. Currently, MIBI's clinical role in brain tumor imaging has yet to be defined. IMT, a radio-labeled amino acid analog, may be useful for identifying postoperative tumor recurrence and, in this application, appears to be a cheaper, more widely available tool than positron emission tomography (PET). However, its ability to accurately identify tumor grade is limited. 18 F-2-Fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG) PET predicts tumor grade, and the metabolic activity of brain tumors has a prognostic significance. Whether FDG uptake has an independent prognostic value above that of histology remains debated. FDG-PET is effective in differentiating recurrent tumor from radiation necrosis for high-grade tumors, but has limited value in defining the extent of tumor involvement and recurrence of low-grade lesions. Amino-acid tracers, such as MET, perform better for this purpose and thus play a complementary role to FDG. Given the poor prognosis of patients with gliomas, particularly with high-grade lesions, the overall clinical utility of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and PET in characterizing recurrent lesions remains dependent on the availability of effective treatments. These tools are thus mostly suited to the evaluation of treatment response in experimental protocols designed to improve the patients' outcome.