68Ga-siderophores for PET imaging of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis: proof of principle. The diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is difficult and lacks specificity and sensitivity. In the pathophysiology of Aspergillus fumigatus, iron plays an essential role as a nutrient during infection. A. fumigatus uses a specific and highly efficient iron uptake mechanism based on iron-complexing ferric ion Fe(III) siderophores, which are a requirement for A. fumigatus virulence. We aimed to evaluate the potential of siderophores radiolabeled with (68)Ga, a positron emitter with complexing properties comparable to those of Fe(III), as a radiopharmaceutical for imaging IPA.(68)Ga radiolabeling of the A. fumigatus siderophores desferri-triacetylfusarinine C (TAFC) and desferri-ferricrocin (FC) was performed at high specific activity. Stability, protein binding, and log P values were determined. In vitro uptake in A. fumigatus cultures was tested under varying conditions. Biodistribution was studied in healthy noninfected BALB/c mice, and uptake was studied in a model of A. fumigatus infection using immunosuppressed Lewis rats.High-specific-activity (68)Ga labeling could be achieved, and resulting complexes were stable in serum, toward diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid and Fe(III) challenge. Both siderophores showed hydrophilic properties ((68)Ga-TAFC, log P = -2.59 (68)Ga-FC, log P = -3.17) with low values of protein binding for (68)Ga-TAFC (<2%). Uptake of both siderophores was highly dependent on the mycelial iron load and could be blocked with an excess (10 microM) of siderophore or NaN(3), indicating specific, energy-dependent uptake. In noninfected mice, (68)Ga-TAFC showed rapid renal excretion and low blood values (1.6 +/- 0.37 percentage injected dose per gram [%ID/g] at 30 min)Both siderophores bound (68)Ga with high affinity, and (68)Ga-TAFC, especially, showed high stability. (68)Ga-TAFC displayed highly selective accumulation by A. fumigatus subspecies in vitro and in vivo. The high and specific uptake by A. fumigatus proves the potential of (68)Ga-labeled siderophores for the specific detection of A. fumigatus during infection. They hold promise as new PET agents for IPA.