Features of chromosomal abnormalities in spontaneous abortion cell culture failures detected by interphase FISH analysis. Cytogenetic analysis of reproductive wastage is an important stage in understanding the genetic background of early embryogenesis. The results of conventional cytogenetic studies of spontaneous abortions depend on tissue culturing and are associated with a significant cell culture failure rate. We performed interphase dual-colour FISH analysis to detect chromosomal abnormalities in noncultured cells from two different tissues-cytotrophoblast and extraembryonic mesoderm-of 60 first-trimester spontaneous abortions from which cells had failed to grow in culture. An original algorithm was proposed to optimize the interphase karyotype screening with a panel of centromere-specific DNA probes for all human chromosomes. The overall rate of numerical chromosomal abnormalities in these cells was 53%. Both typical and rare forms of karyotype imbalance were found. The observation of six cases (19%) of monosomy 7, 15, 21 and 22 in mosaic form, with a predominant normal cell line, was the most unexpected finding. Cell lines with monosomies 21 and 22 were found both in cytotrophoblast and mesoderm, while cells with monosomy 7 and 15 were confined to the cytotrophoblast. The tissue-specific compartmentalization of cell lines with autosomal monosomies provides evidence that the aneuploidy of different human chromosomes may arise during different stages of intrauterine development. The effect of aneuploidy on selection may differ, however, depending on the specific chromosome. The abortions also revealed a high frequency of intratissue chromosomal mosaicism (94%), in comparison with that detected by conventional cytogenetic analysis (29% P<0.001). Confined placental mosaicism was found in 25% of the embryos. The results of molecular cytogenetic analysis of these cell culture failures illustrate that the diversity and phenotypic effects of chromosomal abnormalities during the early stages of human development are underestimated.