Allergic sensitisation in tuberculosis and leprosy patients. A negative association has been observed between infections and allergy in several studies. The aim of the present study was to examine whether tuberculosis and leprosy patients have more or fewer allergies than healthy individuals.Sera from tuberculosis patients, leprosy patients and healthy controls were analysed by ELISA and Pharmacia Unicap for serological markers for allergy and mycobacterial infection. The serological markers for allergy were total IgE, specific IgE using Phadiatop and specific IgE to the dust mite allergen Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus 1 (Der p 1). Serological markers for mycobacterial infections included specific IgG to a mixture of bacille Calmette-Guérin culture filtrate antigens, to purified mannose-capped lipoarabinomannan (manLAM) and to purified secreted antigen 85B.Both tuberculosis and leprosy patients had significantly higher levels of total IgE than controls. Furthermore, a significantly higher level of specific IgE (Phadiatop) was also found in the tuberculosis patients compared with controls. A similar result, but not statistically significant, was observed for the leprosy group. Specific IgG to antigen 85B and to manLAM was found to be significantly higher in both tuberculosis and leprosy patients compared with controls. In addition, leprosy patients had significantly more IgG to the BCG culture filtrate antigen than controls.The results indicate that patients with mycobacterial infections have allergic sensitisation more frequently compared with healthy controls. This is seemingly in contrast with the notion that there is a negative association between allergy and infection ('hygiene hypothesis'). However, since only one in ten of those infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis will develop the disease, patients with active mycobacterial disease represent a selected group. A similar relationship applies for leprosy. It is conceivable that those predisposed to allergy are less resistant to mycobacterial infections.