Regulation of murine macrophage effector functions by lipoarabinomannan from mycobacterial strains with different degrees of virulence. Lipoarabinomannan (LAM) is the major arabinose- and mannose-containing phosphorylated lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in mycobacterial cell walls. LAM preparations from a virulent strain (Erdman) (LAM(Erdman)) and an attenuated strain (H37Ra) (LAMH37Ra) of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, as well as from M. leprae (a virulent mycobacterium), were analyzed for their effects on various macrophage (M phi) effector functions. LAMH37Ra, like gram-negative LPS, exhibited a dose-dependent ability to induce tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) production in normal M phi, and gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) priming of the M phi greatly augmented the levels of TNF-alpha. However, the effects of LAMH37Ra were unaffected by polymyxin B, which totally abrogated the effects of LPS. LAM(Erdman) and LAM from M. leprae, on the other hand, induced virtually no TNF-alpha production. Analysis of M phi mRNA by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed that the levels of production. Analysis of M phi mRNA by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed that the levels of TNF-alpha mRNA induced by the various preparations correlated with the levels of TNF-alpha protein detected. Interestingly, both LAMH37Ra and LAM(Erdman) could block subsequent IFN-gamma- and LPS-induced M phi activation, a previously reported measure of the potent ability of LAM to down-regulate M phi effector functions. Two lines of evidence suggested, however, that M phi cyclooxygenase products did not play a role in this down-regulation. LAMH37Ra and LPS could induce the production of NO2- in both normal and IFN-gamma-primed M phi, whereas LAM(Erdman) could stimulate NO2- production only in primed M phi. Both LAMH37Ra and LAM(Erdman) could substitute for LPS as a triggering signal for IFN-gamma-primed M phi in a toxoplasma killing assay. The triggering ability of LAM(Erdman), however, was abrogated by an anti-TNF-alpha antibody, suggesting that sufficient TNF-alpha production was stimulated by LAM(Erdman) to drive a M phi function relevant in host resistance. Thus, mycobacterial LAM is a potent regulator of M phi functions, a fact that may have important consequences in mycobacterial disease.