Truncated structural variants of lipoarabinomannan in ethambutol drug-resistant strains of Mycobacterium smegmatis. Inhibition of arabinan biosynthesis by ethambutol. The anti-tuberculosis drug, ethambutol (Emb), was previously shown to inhibit the synthesis of arabinans of both the cell wall arabinogalactan (AG) and lipoarabinomannan (LAM) of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and other mycobacteria. However, an Emb-resistant mutant, isolated by consecutive passage of the Mycobacterium smegmatis parent strain in media containing increasing concentrations of Emb, while synthesizing a normal version of AG, produced truncated forms of LAM when maintained on 10 microg/ml Emb (Mikusová, K., Slayden, R. A., Besra, G. S., and Brennan, P. J. (1995) Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 39, 2482-2489). We have now isolated and characterized the truncated LAMs made by both the resistant mutant and a recombinant strain transfected with a plasmid containing the emb region from Mycobacterium avium which encodes for Emb resistance. By chemical analysis, endoarabinanase digestion, high pH anion exchange chromatography, and mass spectrometry analyses, truncation was demonstrated as primarily a consequence of selective and partial inhibition of the synthesis of the linear arabinan terminal motif, which constitutes a substantial portion of the arabinan termini in LAM but not of AG. However, at higher concentrations, Emb also affected the general biosynthesis of arabinan destined for both AG and LAM, resulting in severely truncated LAM as well as AG with a reduced Ara:Gal ratio. The results suggested that Emb exerts its antimycobacterial effect by inhibiting an array of arabinosyltransferases involved in the biosynthesis of arabinans unique to the mycobacterial cell wall. It was further concluded that the uniquely branched terminal Ara6 motif common to both AG and LAM is an essential structural entity for a functional cell wall and, consequently, that the biosynthetic machinery responsible for its synthesis is the effective target of Emb in its role as a potent anti-tuberculosis drug.