The expression of ICAM-1 on macrophages stimulated with Mycobacterium avium complex and its control by some regulatory cytokines. The interaction of LFA-1 on T lymphocytes with ICAM-1 on antigen presenting cells (APCs) is critical in determining conjugate formation between the APCs and T cells as well as activation of T cells. Recently, it was found that stimulation of THP-1 cells, a human monocyte M phi cell line, with Mycobacterium tuberculosis or its lipoarabinomannan, elicited the increase in the ICAM-1 expression. In addition, in cases of lepromatous leprosy patients with a serious defect in the M. leprae antigen-specific cellular immunity, keratinocytes in the leprosy lesions were lacking in the ICAM-1 expression. Therefore, ICAM-1 seems to participate in the host response to mycobacterial infections. Here, we studied the mode of the expression of ICAM-1 molecules on murine peritoneal M phis in response to stimulation with M. avium complex (MAC). In addition, the regulatory effect of some cytokines including TNF-alpha, IL-10, and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) on the ICAM-1 expression was studied. Monolayer cultures of peptone-starch induced murine peritoneal M phis were cultured in RPMI-1640 medium in the presence of MAC with or without test agents. At intervals, the M phis were stained with anti-ICAM-1 antibody (Ab) and then treated with alkaline phosphatase (Ap)-conjugated anti-1g Ab. After color development with NBT-BCIP substrate, percentage of the blue-stained (ICAM-1 positive) M phis was determined microscopically. The concentrations of TNF-alpha, IL-10, and TGF-beta in the M phi culture fluid was measured by ELISA using capture Ab, biotin-labelled capping Ab, and Ap-conjugated streptavidin. When M phis infected with MAC organisms were cultured in RPMI medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum or in serum-free GPI medium, a significant increase in their ICAM-1 expression was observed, reaching the peak at days 1 to 3, thereafter rapidly decreased and returned to the normal level by day 14. Further addition of TNF-alpha caused no significant change in the mode of the MAC-induced expression of ICAM-1. A transient increase in the IL-10 production of MAC-infected M phis was observed during the first 3-days cultivation, as in the case of TNF-alpha. On the other hand, TGF-beta production of the Mø population was initiated from day 3, and therafter increased gradually until day 14. ICAM-1 expression of the MAC-infected M phis was not influenced by the addition of IL-10, while anti-IL-10 Ab retarded the decline of ICAM-1 expression at day 7. On the other hand, the addition of TCF-beta attenuated the MAC infection-induced increase in the ICAM-1 expression significantly. In addition, anti-TGF-beta Ab significantly delayed the reduction of the ICAM-1 expression of MAC-infected M phis during days 3 to 7. These results indicate that, in the MAC-infected M phis. TGF-beta rather than IL-10 play important roles as a mediators for the late-phase down-regulation of ICAM-1 expression which had been transiently elevated by the action of TNF-alpha in the early phase of the Mø cultivation.