<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2012-07-12</DATELINE><TITLE>Understanding the Chinese-Speaking Economies</TITLE><BODY>The term ‘Greater China’ is defined in this chapter as one which includes Taiwan, Hong Kong, Macau, and mainland China. There have been different names for the greater China area, such as ‘the Chinese circle’, ‘the Chinese community’, ‘the greater China community’, ‘China economic circle’, ‘Chinese economic area’, ‘China economic zone’, and so on. Probably first used by George Cressey at least as far back as the 1930s, the term ‘Greater China’ was to refer to the entire Chinese empire, as opposed to China proper (Harding, 1993, p. 660). The term ‘Greater China’ is now generally used for referring to the cultural and economic ties between the relevant territories, and is not intended to imply sovereignty. Sometimes, to avoid any political connotation, the term Chinese-speaking world is often used instead of the Greater China. Despite the common historical, cultural, and linguistic homogeneity, the greater China economic area has followed different routes of economic developments. Hong Kong and Macau have been under the colonial administrations of the UK and of Portugal, respectively. Taiwan was a Japanese colony between 1895 and 1945 and, following a short period of reunification with mainland China, has been operating independently from the rest of the world. As a result, significant social and economic differences have been present in the four parts of the area, especially since 1949. The Taiwan Strait became a forbidden boundary in 1949 when the Nationalist-led government fled to Taiwan and, at the same time, the Communist-led government was founded on the mainland. Since then, Taiwan and mainland China have been two divergent regimes. Against the common cultural and linguistic homogeneity, mainland China chose essentially to pursue a socialist line, while Taiwan followed the route of market-oriented capitalism. Furthermore, the two sides have also treated each other antagonistically, particularly during the high tide of military confrontation, when the mainland claimed that it would liberate the Taiwan compatriots from the black society sooner or later, while in turn Taiwan maintained that they would use the ‘three democratisms’ to reoccupy the mainland eventually. The Chinese people have a long history of migrating overseas. One of the migrations dates back to the Ming dynasty when Zheng He (1371–1435) became the envoy of the Ming emperor. He sent people – many of them Cantonese and Hokkien – to explore and trade in the South China Sea and in the Indian Ocean. Different waves of immigration led to subgroups among overseas Chinese such as the new and old immigrants in Southeast Asia, North America, Oceania, the Caribbean, Latin America, South Africa, and Russia. From the mid-nineteenth century onward, emigration has been directed primarily to Western countries (such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, New Zealand, the United States, and Western Europe). Many of these emigrants were themselves overseas Chinese or were from Taiwan or Hong Kong, particularly from the 1950s to the 1970s, a period during which the PRC placed severe restrictions on the movement of its citizens. In 1984, Britain agreed to transfer the sovereignty of Hong Kong to the PRC; this triggered another wave of migration to the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, USA, Latin America, and the other parts of the world. The Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 further accelerated the migration. The wave calmed after Hong Kong’s transfer of sovereignty in 1997. In addition, many citizens of Hong Kong hold citizenships or have current visas in other countries so if the need arises, they can leave Hong Kong at short notice. Keywords Greater China, Chinese-speaking world, economic area, emigration, the Taiwan Strait, Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, multiregional economic comparison, cross-Strait economic relations, overseas Chinese&#3;</BODY></TEXT>