<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-02-06</DATELINE><TITLE>Steroid-associated osteonecrosis animal model in rats</TITLE><BODY>OBJECTIVE: Established preclinical disease models are essential for not only studying aetiology and/or pathophysiology of the relevant diseases but more importantly also for testing prevention and/or treatment concept(s). The present study proposed and established a detailed induction and assessment protocol for a unique and cost-effective preclinical steroid-associated osteonecrosis (SAON) in rats with pulsed injections of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and methylprednisolone (MPS). METHODS: Sixteen 24-week-old male Sprague–Dawley rats were used to induce SAON by one intravenous injection of LPS (0.2 mg/kg) and three intraperitoneal injections of MPS (100 mg/kg) with a time interval of 24 hour, and then, MPS (40 mg/kg) was intraperitoneally injected three times a week from week 2 until sacrifice. Additional 12 rats were used as normal controls. Two and six weeks after induction, animals were scanned by metabolic dual energy X-ray absorptiometry for evaluation of tissue composition; serum was collected for bone turnover markers, Microfil perfusion was performed for angiography, the liver was collected for histopathology and bilateral femora and bilateral tibiae were collected for histological examination. RESULTS: Three rats died after LPS injection, i.e., with 15.8% (3/19) mortality. Histological evaluation showed 100% incidence of SAON at week 2. Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry showed significantly higher fat percent and lower lean mass in SAON group at week 6. Micro-computed tomography (Micro-CT) showed significant bone degradation at proximal tibia 6 weeks after SAON induction. Angiography illustrated significantly less blood vessels in the proximal tibia and significantly more leakage particles in the distal tibia 2 weeks after SAON induction. Serum amino-terminal propeptide of type I collagen and osteocalcin were significantly lower at both 2 and 6 weeks after SAON induction, and serum carboxy-terminal telopeptide was significantly lower at 6 weeks after SAON induction. Histomorphometry revealed significantly lower osteoblast surface and higher marrow fat fraction and oedema area in SAON group. Hepatic oedema appeared 2 weeks after SAON induction, and lipid accumulation appeared in the liver of SAON rats 6 weeks after SAON induction. CONCLUSION: The present study successfully induced SAON in rats with pulsed injection of LPS and MPS, which was well simulating the clinical feature and pathology. Apart from available large animal models, such as bipedal emus or quadrupedal rabbits, our current SAON small model in rats could be a cost-effective preclinical experimental model to study body metabolism, molecular mechanism of SAON and potential drugs developed for prevention or treatment of SAON. THE TRANSLATIONAL POTENTIAL OF THIS ARTICLE: The present study successfully induced SAON in a small animal model in rats with pulsed injection of LPS and MPS. The evaluation protocols with typical histopathologic ON features and advanced evaluation approaches to identify the metabolic disorders of SAON could be used in future rat SAON studies. The SAON rat model is a suitable and cost-effective animal model to study molecular mechanism of SAON and potential drugs developed for prevention and treatment of SAON.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>