<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2020-01-06</DATELINE><TITLE>Quantitative label-free proteomic analysis reveals differentially expressed proteins in the digestive juice of resistant versus susceptible silkworm strains and their predicted impacts on BmNPV infection</TITLE><BODY>Abstract Bombyx mori nucleopolyhedrovirus (BmNPV) is a major pathogen causing severe economic loss. Previous studies have revealed that some proteins in silkworm digestive juice show antiviral activity. In this study, antiviral activity examination of different resistant strains showed that the digestive juice of the resistant strain (A35) had higher inhibition to virus than the susceptible strain (P50). Subsequently, the label-free quantitative proteomics was used to study the midgut digestive juice response to BmNPV infection in P50 and A35 strains. A total of 98 proteins were identified, of which 80 were differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) with 54 enzymes and 26 nonenzymatic proteins by comparing the proteomes of infected and non-infected P50 and A35 silkworms. These DEPs are mainly involved in metabolism, proteolysis, neuroactive ligand receptor interaction, starch and sucrose metabolism and glutathione metabolism. After removing the genetic background and individual immune stress response proteins, 9 DEPs were identified potentially involved in resistance to BmNPV. Further studies showed that a serine protease, an alkaline phosphatase and serine protease inhibitor 2 isoform X1 were differentially expressed in A35 compared to P50 or post BmNPV infection. Taken together, these results provide insights into the potential mechanisms for silkworm digestive juice to provide resistance to BmNPV infection. Signifcance: Bombyx mori nucleopolyhedrovirus (BmNPV) is highly pathogenic, which has a great impact on the sericulture. BmNPV entered the midgut lumen and exposed to digestive juices after oral infection. Previous studies have revealed that some proteins in silkworm digestive juice show antiviral activity, however, current information on the digestive juice proteome of high resistant silkworm strain after BmNPV challenge compared to susceptible strain is incomprehensive. Here, we combined label-free quantification method, bioinformatics, RT-qPCR and western blot analysis and found that BmNPV infection causes some protein changes in the silkworm midgut digestive juice. The DEPs were identified in the digestive juices of different resistant strains following BmNPV infection, and screened out some proteins potentially related to resistance to BmNPV. Three important differentially expression proteins were validated by independent approaches. These findings uncover the potential role of silkworm digestive juice in providing resistance to BmNPV and supplemented the profile of the proteome of the digestive juices in B. mori.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>