<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2010-06-30</DATELINE><TITLE>Legionnaires' disease mimicking swine influenza (H1N1) pneumonia during the “herald wave” of the pandemic</TITLE><BODY>Background New York area hospitals were hit hard by the swine influenza (H1N1) pandemic in spring and summer 2009. During a pandemic, the initial cases may be difficult to recognize, but subsequent clinical diagnoses were relatively straightforward, given the high volume of cases and their typical clinical presentation. Swine influenza pneumonia presents as an influenza-like illness (ILI) with dry cough, fever >102°F and myalgias. A variety of other viral pneumonias, eg, cytomegalovirus, human parainfluenza virus 3 (HPIV 3), and adenovirus, as well as bacterial community-acquired pneumonias (CAPs) that may present with some of the clinical and laboratory features of H1N1 pneumonia. Most adults admitted to hospitals with ILIs during the pandemic had, in fact, definite or probable H1N1 pneumonia. The Infectious Disease Division at Winthrop-University Hospital developed a diagnostic weighted point score to identify probable H1N1 cases in hospitalized adults with rapid negative influenza diagnostic tests (RIDTs). Methods We present a case of an elderly male who presented with an ILI and negative RIDTs during the H1N1 pandemic. He was admitted with a diagnosis of possible H1N1, and placed on influenza precautions and oseltamivir. Although the patient had features consistent with H1N1 pneumonia, Legionnaires' disease was included in the differential diagnosis because of his elevated serum ferritin levels. A Legionella urinary antigen test was positive for Legionella pneumophila (serogroups 01-06). Results The peak seasonal incidence of sporadic Legionnaires' disease occurs in the summer and fall. Even in the midst of a pandemic, clinicians should be on the alert for other infectious diseases that may mimic H1N1 pneumonia. In our experience, the best way to differentiate H1N1 from ILIs or other bacterial CAPs is through the Winthrop-University Hospital Infectious Disease Division's diagnostic weighted point score system for H1N1 pneumonia or its rapid simplified version, ie, the diagnostic swine influenza triad. Legionnaires' disease is the atypical CAP pathogen most likely to mimic H1N1 pneumonia. Conclusions Based on this and other nine cases at our institution during the “herald wave” of pandemic, we conclude that Legionnaires' disease may mimic swine influenza (H1N1) pneumonia.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>