Fel d 1 and Can f 1 in settled dust and airborne Fel d 1 in allergen avoidance day-care centres for atopic children in relation to number of pet-owners, ventilation and general cleaning. Special day-care centres for atopic children have been established in Sweden.To study concentrations of cat (Fel d 1) and dog (Can f 1) allergens in settled dust and airborne cat allergen in day-care centres in relation to pet ownership among children and staff, ventilation and general cleaning.Twelve allergen avoidance day-care centres and 22 conventional day-care centres were included in the study. Settled dust was collected and analysed with ELISA. Airborne cat allergen levels were measured in eight allergen avoidance and seven conventional centres with a personal air sampler and analysed with an amplified ELISA. Air change rate per hour (ACH) was measured. A questionnaire which focused on keeping of cat and dog among staff and children and frequency of general cleaning was used.In the allergen avoidance day-care centres neither children nor staff reported ownership of cats or dogs, compared with 21/22 of the conventional centres in which children and staff kept furred animals. Fel d 1 and Can f 1 were found in settled dust in all day-care centres. In the allergen avoidance compared with the conventional centres the concentrations of Fel d 1 and Can f 1 were lower, Fel d 1: median 0. 64 microg/g vs 5.45 microg/g and Can f 1: 0.39 microg/g vs 2.51, both P < 0.001, and airborne Fel d 1 was also lower in the allergen avoidance centres compared with the control centres, 1.51 ng/m3 vs 15.8 ng/m3, P = 0.002. A correlation was found between airborne and settled Fel d 1, rs = 0.75, P < 0.001. Furthermore, a correlation was found between increased ACH and decreased levels of Fel d 1 in the air in the day-care centres with no cat-owners, rs = - 0.86, P = 0.007. No relation was found between levels of cat or dog allergen and amount of general cleaning.Not keeping pets seems to reduce children's exposure to pet-allergen in their 'working environment'. Additionally, appropriate ventilation seems to reduce Fel d 1 in the air in day-care centres.