Three-dimensional clinical PET in lung cancer: validation and practical strategies. The feasibility of 3-dimensional acquisition mode for semiquantitative analysis in thoracic PET studies was compared to the conventional 2-dimensional mode. Several practical considerations were analyzed to propose an optimized scanning protocol for clinical use.Twenty-one patients with focal thoracic abnormalities were evaluated with FDG PET. The acquisition consisted of 3 consecutive static scans for a single bed position: 3-dimensional (10 min), 2-dimensional (15 min), and 3-dimensional (5 min). On the basis of the average and maximum activity values per region of interest, standardized uptake value (SUV) normalized for total body weight (TBW), lean body mass (LBM), body surface area (BSA), and blood glucose level (PGL) were evaluated. The effect of the delay between tracer injection and PET scanning on the SUV, as well as on the relative error of the activity distribution, was studied from 40-134 min after tracer injection.A strong positive correlation was observed among SUVs from 2-dimensional and both 3-dimensional acquisitions. The mean SUV percentage differences between both acquisition modes were about 17%, differences that were not statistically significant when time postinjection was addressed in the analysis of covariance. SUVs provided the greatest variability and differences among studies on experimental periods up to 70 min postinjection. Indeed, the variability of 20% observed on the SUVs from 2 PET scans 13 min apart was reduced to 9% when the acquisitions started at least 70 min after tracer injection. In addition, a two-fold reduction in the relative error of the activity distribution was observed over this period of time. The reproducibility coefficient was increased from 0.87 to 0.95 before and after 70 min postinjection, respectively. No correlation was found between different normalization procedures of SUV and LBM, BSA, TBW, or height, whereas a weak correlation was found between SUV and PGL.18F-FDG 3-dimensional PET is a realistic alternative to the gold standard 2-dimensional for clinical nonkinetic studies. A short, 5-min 3-dimensional acquisition at 70 min postinjection is proposed as the best protocol for the clinical evaluation of thoracic pathologies.