Implementation of a Tc-99m and Ce-139 scanning line source for attenuation correction in SPECT using a dual opposing detector scintillation camera. Image degradation during single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) due to attenuation and Compton scatter of photons can cause clinical image artifacts and will also result in inaccurate quantitative data. Therefore attenuation correction methods recently received wide interest. Transmission imaging can be performed to obtain the attenuation coefficients of a nonhomogeneous attenuating medium accurately. The aim of this study was firstly to evaluate the imaging characteristics of the scanning line source assembly. The results obtained with Tc-99m and Ce-139 were compared. Secondly the calculated attenuation coefficients were compared with known values from literature, using Tc-99m and Ce-139 as transmission sources. Lastly the method of acquiring simultaneous transmission and emission data was investigated. This study shows that an attenuation coefficient map can be obtained using a scanning line source for transmission imaging with a dual opposing detector camera. The imaging characteristics of Tc-99m and Ce-139 as transmission sources are similar. The resolution obtained with the Ce-139 line source was poorer than that obtained with the Tc-99m line source. A linear relationship was found between CT numbers and attenuation coefficients for transmission images using both Tc-99m and Ce-139 line sources. The attenuation coefficient value for water was underestimated by 1% using the Tc-99m transmission source and underestimated by 10% using Ce-139 as transmission source. This underestimation of attenuation coefficient values was also obtained in the human study. A myocardial perfusion study processed without and with attenuation correction clearly demonstrated the effect of the attenuation correction in the inferior myocardial region. The potential of using a scanning line source as transmission source with a dual opposing detector camera has been demonstrated in this study. The transmission source, Ce-139 was successfully introduced in this investigation for simultaneous acquisition of transmission and emission data.