Development and application of normal limits for left ventricular ejection fraction and volume measurements from 99mTc-sestamibi myocardial perfusion gates SPECT. Gated SPECT is a reproducible method for assessing left ventricular volume (LVV) and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) from 99mTc-sestamibi myocardial perfusion imaging studies. LVV and LVEF measurements by this approach correlate well with those obtained from other cardiovascular imaging techniques. Nevertheless, the lack of criteria for abnormal test findings has limited the potential clinical application of this new imaging technique.Gated SPECT measurements were evaluated for 214 patients with a low Bayesian likelihood (< 10%) of coronary artery disease (CAD) before performance of 99mTc-sestamibi stress-rest myocardial perfusion SPECT. The patients were grouped into normotensive patients (n = 98), hypertensive patients without left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) (n = 80), and hypertensive patients with LVH on resting electrocardiography (n = 36). Gated SPECT measurements for left ventricular end-diastolic volume (LVEDV) index, left ventricular end-systolic volume (LVESV) index, and LVEF were obtained according to a published method, using a modified Simpson's rule technique.Similar results were obtained for mean LVV and LVEF measurements between normotensive patients and hypertensive patients without LVH. Hence, these groups were combined (as group 1). By contrast, hypertensive patients with LVH (group 2), had significantly lower LVEF values (P = 0.01) and higher mean LVESV index values than normotensive patients (P = 0.03). Sex differences were marked: women had significantly higher mean resting LVEF values than men (P < 0.0001) and significantly lower mean resting LVEDV index values (P < 0.0001). A significant relationship was seen between LVEDV index and LVEF (r = -0.60 P < 0.0001) and between LVEDV index and heart rate (r = -0.26Using a cohort of low-likelihood patients, we generated sex-specific normal limits for LVV and LVEF for myocardial perfusion gated SPECT. Application of these findings resulted in the detection of occult left ventricular dysfunction in approximately one fifth of hypertensive patients for whom concomitant LVH was found through resting electrocardiography. These normal limits can now be evaluated prospectively for their potential clinical value.