Functional cranial neuronavigation. Direct integration of fMRI and PET data. We report our first experiences with the direct integration of fMRI data into cranial neuronavigation.For navigation we used the MKM system and thin-sliced T1 contrast enhanced images. As a first step 21 patients had fMRI for localization of the precentral gyrus, 2 patients for Broca area detection. By anatomical correlation, these functional data were indirectly compared to the intraoperative findings using cortical SSEP (n=20) or cortical stimulation (n=3). Encouraged by these preliminary results, we started the direct integration of fMRI into neuronavigation in June 1999, followed by PET in January 2000, enabling us to compare functional images with intraoperative findings directly. fMRI and PET data were integrated by landmark matching referring on skin fiducials. Meanwhile, fMRI data of 8 patients (6 motorcortex, 2 Broca) and PET images of 1 patient were directly integrated into neuronavigation. Six out of 8 patients had additional cortical monitoring, 2/8 were exclusively operated on by functional neuronavigation.Using indirect comparison between fMRI and intraoperative findings we observed a good correlation in every case for the motorcortex, but only in 1/2 for the speech area. In all 6 direct integrated fMRI cases, these findings corresponded well to the conventional ones. Both patients with sole functional navigation did not have any postoperative neurological deficit. The inaccuracy of the fMRI ifT1 matching was 2. 7 mm (sigma=0.9 mm) and 1.3 mm (sigma=0.4 mm) of the subsequent referenciation of the navigation. The tumor delinement shown by 11C-methionine PET could be proven by intraoperative biopsy outside its indicated tumor margin. The inaccuracy of the PET matching was 0. 8 mm.Functional neuronavigation enables to visualize and preserve relevant brain areas. Other functional areas like short-term memory, which solely can be detected by fMRI might also be monitored in the future. The integration of PET data expect to gain a better differentiation of tumor and edema.