Myocardial oxidative metabolism in remote normal regions in the left ventricles with remodeling after myocardial infarction: effect of beta-adrenoceptor blockers. In patients with myocardial infarction (MI), an expansion of the remote normal regions of the left ventricle is often observed. However, the characteristics of such regions are not fully understood. Thus, we investigated this issue from the standpoint of myocardial oxidative metabolism using (11)C-acetate PET.In 33 patients with recent MI (24 not receiving beta-blockers, 9 receiving beta-blockers) and 12 age-matched normal control subjects, (11)C-acetate dynamic myocardial PET scanning was performed at rest. Time-activity curves of (11)C-acetate in 5-7 regions of interest (ROIs) on the midventricular transaxial image in each subject were generated, and the clearance rate constant (K(mono)) in each ROI was calculated by monoexponential fitting as an index of myocardial oxidative metabolism. The left ventricular (LV) end-diastolic volume index as an index of LV remodeling and the heart rate. pressure product were obtained in all subjects.The LV end-diastolic volume index was significantly larger in patients with MI without beta-blockers than in normal control subjects (101 +/- 22.5 vs. 61.6 +/- 12.8 mL x m(-2) P < 0.001). There was no significant difference in the heart rate x pressure product between the patients with MI without beta-blockers and the normal control subjects (8,229 +/- 1,503 vs. 8,311 +/- 1,311 mm Hg x min(-1)). The K(mono) in remote normal regions was significantly greater in patients with MI without beta-blockers even when compared with the highest K(mono) on the anteroseptal wall of the left ventricle in normal control subjects (0.078 +/- 0.022 vs. 0.065 +/- 0.007 min(-1)Myocardial oxidative metabolism in remote normal regions is accelerated in the left ventricles with remodeling after acute MI. Therapy using beta-blockers normalizes the myocardial oxidative metabolism in such regions through the reduction of the heart rate x pressure product and their direct effect on the myocardium.