The role of positron emission tomography imaging in movement disorders. PET imaging provides the means to study neurochemical, hemodynamic, or metabolic processes that underlie movement disorders in vivo. Because the extent of presynaptic nigrostriatal dopaminergic denervation can be quantified in PD even at an early or preclinical stage of the disease, PET imaging may allow the selection of at-risk subjects for neuroprotective intervention trials. These techniques may also provide markers to follow progression of disease or evaluate the effects of neurorestorative interventions in patients who have more advanced disease. PET is expected to play an increasing role in the selection of patients who have PD for deep brain stimulation. Dopaminergic studies may have a limited clinical role in the diagnosis of patients who have symptoms that suggestive of PD yet do not respond to typical dopaminergic drugs, such as patients who have vascular parkinsonism or ET with mild resting tremor who may have normal dopaminergic innervation. The differential diagnosis between PD and multiple system atrophy, progressive supranuclear palsy, or corticobasal degeneration is not yet clearly established by PET, but combined pre- and postsynaptic dopaminergic imaging may be able to distinguish early idiopathic PD from atypical parkinsonian disorders, in general. Huntington's chorea is characterized by more prominent striatal dopamine receptor loss, whereas nigrostriatal denervation is present to a lesser degree. Patients who have TS may have enhanced synaptic dopamine release in the putamen. Functional imaging studies have generally failed to demonstrate nigrostriatal denervation in essential tremor or idiopathic dystonia. Studies have shown striatal dopamine receptor loss in selected subtypes of dystonic patients. In conclusion, it is expected that PET will help us to better understand the pathophysiology of movement disorders, increase the diagnostic accuracy, allow preclinical diagnosis, monitor disease progression, and evaluate the efficacy of therapeutic agents. Pharmacologic radioligand displacement studies and the development of new nondopaminergic ligands may further aid in the unraveling of cerebral mechanisms that underlie movement disorders.