Anatomical accuracy of lesion localization. Retrospective interactive rigid image registration between 18F-FDG-PET and X-ray CT. The aim of this study was to evaluate the anatomical accuracy and reproducibility of retrospective interactive rigid image registration (RIR) between routinely archived X-ray computer tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography performed with 18F-deoxyglucose (FDG-PET) in oncological patients.Two observers registered PET and CT data obtained in 37 patients using a commercially available image fusion tool. RIR was performed separately for the thorax and the abdomen using physiological FDG uptake in several organs as a reference. One observer performed the procedure twice (O1a and O1b), another person once (O2). For 94 malignant lesions, clearly visible in CT and PET, the signed and absolute distances between their representation on PET and CT were measured in X-, Y-, and Z-direction with reference to a coordinate system centered in the CT representation of each lesion (X-, Y-, Z-distances).The mean differences of the signed and absolute distances between O1a, O1b, and O2 did not exceed 3 mm in any dimension. The absolute X-, Y-, and Z-distances ranged between 0.57 +/- 0.58 cm for O1a (X-direction) and 1.12 +/- 1.28 cm for O2 (Z-direction). When averaging the absolute distances measured by O1a, O1b, and O2, the percentage of lesions misregistered by less than 1.5 cm was 91% for the X-, 88% for the Y-, and 77% for the Z-direction. The larger error of fusion determined for the remaining lesions was caused by non-rigid body transformations due to differences in breathing, arm position, or bowel movements between the two examinations. Mixed effects analysis of the signed and absolute X-, Y-, and Z-distances disclosed a significantly greater misalignment in the thorax than in the abdomen as well as axially than transaxially.The anatomical inaccuracy of RIR can be expected to be <1.5 cm for the majority of neoplastic foci. Errors of alignment are bigger in the thorax and in Z-direction, due to non-rigid body transformations caused, e.g., by breathing.