Comparison of adenosine and exercise thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) myocardial perfusion imaging. The GE SPECT Multicenter Adenosine Study Group. Pharmacologic stress with dipyridamole has provided useful diagnostic, as well as prognostic, information in patients undergoing thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging. With its ultrashort half-life and a potent and consistent vasodilator effect, adenosine may be the coronary vasodilator of choice with myocardial perfusion imaging. Fifty-one healthy subjects and 93 patients with suspected coronary artery disease constituted the study group. In this multicenter study the comparative safety and diagnostic efficacy of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) thallium imaging during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia was compared with exercise treadmill stress. There was a mean increase in heart rate of 37% and a mean decrease in diastolic blood pressure of 5% during the adenosine infusion of 140 micrograms/kg per min for 6 min. Adenosine infusion was well tolerated in 95% of the subjects. Side effects requiring intervention occurred in seven subjects (5%). None of the subjects experienced a life-threatening complication. The sensitivity, specificity and predictive accuracy for detection of coronary artery disease with use of quantitative analysis was 83%, 87% and 84% for adenosine SPECT and 82%, 80% and 81% for exercise SPECT studies, respectively. Most false negative results with adenosine, as well as exercise SPECT studies, occurred in patients with single-vessel disease. The first-order concordance (no defect vs. defect) and second-order concordance (no defect vs. irreversible vs. reversible defect) was 89% and 78% between the two studies, respectively. Thus, the results of adenosine SPECT imaging are highly concordant with exercise SPECT thallium imaging. Adenosine SPECT thallium imaging provides a safe and highly accurate imaging mode for the detection of coronary artery disease.