Clinical evaluation of a novel occluder device (Occlutech) for percutaneous transcatheter closure of patent foramen ovale (PFO). We investigated the safety, feasibility and usefulness for closure of PFO with the new nitinol meshwire PFO-occluder device (Occlutech Figulla-single layer occluder) with an unique braiding technology which allows a 50% reduction of meshwork material on the left atrial side in combination with a greater flexibility as compared to the Amplatzer occluder device.The retention discs of the new PFO Occlutech Figulla single layer device (23/25 mm) are connected by a 3 mm waist in the centre with only one right atrial side hub. The left atrial disc is a single flat layer covered by an ultrathin polyethylene terephthalate (PET) patch. We investigated the safety, feasibility and usefulness for closure of PFO in a multicenter clinical trial. Indications for closure included cryptogenic stroke with evidence of a patent foramen ovale in transesophageal echocardiography (PFO max. diameter 13 mm according to sizing balloon). The device was implanted in 36 patients (mean age 57, 18-80 years) by means of fluoroscopy and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) using a 9 French delivery sheath and employing a femoral vein approach. Both acetylsalicylacid 100 mg/d (6 months) and clopidogrel 75 mg/d (3 months) were administered post interventional. A transthoracal (TTE) and transesophageal echocardiography follow-up examination was performed after 1, 2 and 6 months (TTE day 30 and 180 TEE day 60).The device was successfully implanted in 36 pts. In one patient PFO implantations was attempted but not crossed with a guide wire. Perioperativly there were no major in-hospital-adverse events or complications thromboembolism, occluder dislodgement, infection or myocardial infarction. One patient had transient atrial fibrillation 2 h after implantation, which terminated medically after 12 h. TEE studies in the remaining 35 pts (one pt was unwilling to further participate) showed a residual shunt in 8.6% (3/35) after 60 days and a left-to-right shunt in 2.6% (1/35) of pts. After 180 days one pt with severe arteriosclerotic heart disease and A.carotic stenosis revealed a stroke without evidence of cardioembolic origin or devices thrombosis.The novel Occlutech Figulla PFO N single layer device appears to be safe, feasible and useful for PFO closure despite a 50% reduction of the meshwire, no distal hub and an improved flexibility of the left atrial disc.