Monte Carlo investigation of charge-transport effects on energy resolution and detection efficiency of pixelated CZT detectors for SPECT/PET applications. Semiconductor detectors are increasingly considered as alternatives to scintillation crystals for nuclear imaging applications such as positron emission tomography (PET) or single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). One of the most prominent detector materials is cadmium zinc telluride (CZT), which is currently used in several application-specific nuclear imaging systems. In this work, the charge-transport effects in pixelated CZT detectors in relation to detector pixel size and thickness are investigated for pixels sizes from 0.4 up to 1.6 mm.The determination of an optimum pixel size and thickness for use with photon energies of 140 and 511 keV, suitable for SPECT and PET studies, is attempted using photon detection efficiency and energy resolution as figures of merit. The Monte Carlo method combined with detailed finite element analysis was utilized to realistically model photon interactions in the detector and the signal generation process. The GEANT4 Application for Tomographic Emission (GATE) toolkit was used for photon irradiation and interaction simulations. The COMSOL MULTIPHYSICS software application was used to create finite element models of the detector that included charge drift, diffusion, trapping, and generation. Data obtained from the two methods were combined to generate accurate signal induction at the detector pixels. The energy resolution was calculated as the full width at half maximum of the energy spectrum photopeak. Photon detection efficiency was also calculated. The effects of charge transport within the detector and photon escape from primary pixel of interaction were investigated the extent of diffusion to lateral pixels was also assessed.Charge transport and signal induction were affected by the position of a pixel in the detector. Edge and corner pixels were less susceptible to lateral diffusion than pixels located in the inner part of the detector. Higher detection efficiency and increased photon escape from primary interaction pixel were observed for thicker detectors. Energy resolution achieved better values in 0.7 and 1.0 mm pixel size for 5 mm detector thickness and 1.6 mm pixel size for 10 mm thickness.Selection of pixel size and thickness depends on the imaging application and photon energy utilized. For systems that integrate two nuclear imaging modalities (i.e., combined SPECT/PET), the pixel size should offer an appropriate balance of the effects that take place in the detector, based on the results of the current work. This allows for a system to be designed with the same detector material and the same geometrical configuration for both modalities.