 Endothelial cells are important cells in inflammatory responses (1, 2). Bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), virus, inflammation, and tissue injury increase tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα), interleukin-1 (IL-1), and other cytokine and chemokine secretion. Leukocyte emigration from blood is dependent on their ability to adhere to endothelial cell surfaces. Inflammatory mediators and cytokines induce chemokine secretion from endothelial cells and other vascular cells and increase their expression of cell surface adhesion molecules, such as intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), integrins, and selectins. Chemokines are chemotactic toward leukocytes and toward sites of inflammation and tissue injury. The movement of leukocytes through endothelial junctions into the extravascular space is highly orchestrated through various interactions with different adhesion molecules on endothelial cells (3). VCAM-1 is found in very low amounts or is undetectable on the cell surface of resting endothelial cells and other vascular cells, such as smooth muscle cells and fibroblasts (4-8). VCAM-1 binds to very late antigen-4 (VLA-4) integrin on the cell surface of leukocytes. IL-1 and TNFα increase expression of VCAM-1 and other cell adhesion molecules on vascular endothelial cells, which leads to leukocyte adhesion to the activated endothelium. Furthermore, VCAM-1 expression is also induced by oxidized low-density lipoproteins under atherogenic conditions (9). Overexpression of VCAM-1 by atherosclerotic lesions plays an important role in their progression toward vulnerable plaques, which may erode and rupture. Microbubbles targeted with monoclonal antibody against VCAM-1 are being developed as a noninvasive agent for VCAM-1 expression in vascular endothelial cells during different stages of inflammation in atherosclerosis (10). Nanobodies are the smallest intact antigen-binding fragments (15 kDa) isolated from heavy-chain camelid antibodies with efficient and specific tumor targeting (11-13). Broisat et al. (14) evaluated ten anti-VCAM-1 nanobodies, of which cAbVCAM1-5 was the lead nanobody. cAbVCAM1-5 is cross-reactive for human VCAM-1 (hVCAM1) and mouse VCAM-1 (mVCAM1) with nanomolar affinities. cAbVCAM1-5 was radiolabeled with 