Reverse redistribution of 99m Tc-sestamibi after direct percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in acute myocardial infarction: relationship with wall motion and functional response to dobutamine stimulation. Reverse redistribution (RR) of 99mTc-sestamibi is observed after direct percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) in acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The purpose of this study was to clarify the functional characteristics of myocardial segments with RR after direct PTCA in AMI. Thirty patients with AMI who had undergone direct PTCA were examined. Myocardial perfusion tomography with 99mTc-sestamibi and low dose dobutamine echocardiography were performed within 2 weeks of the onset. The 99mTc-sestamibi images were obtained 1 and 3 h after tracer administration. The left ventricle was divided into nine segments, and regional 99mTc-sestamibi uptake and clearance were quantitatively evaluated in each segment. RR was defined as a decrease in 99mTc-sestamibi uptake of >10% on 3 h delayed images compared with the 1 h early images. The left ventricle in the echocardiographic images was also divided into nine segments corresponding to the scintigraphic images, and regional wall motion was assessed in the resting condition as the baseline and during dobutamine administration (5-10 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1)). Out of a total of 270 myocardial segments, 111 segments were perfused by the culprit coronary artery and were defined as ischaemic segments. There were 25 segments with RR and 86 segments without RR in the ischaemic myocardium. Enhanced clearance of 99mTc-sestamibi was observed in ischaemic segments with RR (P<0.001). Echocardiography demonstrated that 24 out of 25 segments with RR and 61 out of 86 segments without RR had wall motion abnormalities. Dobutamine infusion improved wall motion in 20 (83%) of the 24 dysfunctional segments with RR and 33 (54%) of the 61 dysfunctional segments without RR (P<0.02). These findings suggest that RR indicates reversible functional abnormalities associated with preserved contractile reserve in response to dobutamine. The early and delayed imaging of 99mTc-sestamibi provides useful information regarding the residual viability of the dysfunctional myocardium in AMI patients.