Bone scintigraphy and SPECT/CT of bisphosphonate-induced osteonecrosis of the jaw. Endovenous bisphosphonate therapy seems associated with osteonecrosis of the jaw. The aim of this study was to evaluate the additional diagnostic value of hybrid SPECT/CT in 99mTc-methylene diphosphonate 3-phase bone scintigraphy of osteonecrosis of the jaw in bisphosphonate-treated patients.We studied 15 patients (12 women and 3 men) with extraoral tumors affected by lytic bone metastases and multiple myeloma. All patients were previously treated with intravenous bisphosphonates (zoledronic acid) for 1-3 y, were negative for dental disease at clinical examination, and had suspected osteonecrosis of the jaw. All 15 patients underwent panoramic x-ray orthopantomography, CT or MRI (or both), microbiologic examination, 3-phase bone scintigraphy, and SPECT/CT of the maxillary region.Three-phase bone-scintigraphy showed increased perfusion and an increased blood pool in 9 of 12 and 10 of 12 patients, respectively at the metabolic phase, SPECT was positive in all patients and showed abnormal hyperactivity in the maxilla of 2 patients, in the mandible of 9 patients, and in both the mandible and the maxilla of 4 patients. Hybrid SPECT/CT was of particular value in 8 of 15 patients, allowing discrimination of the osteonecrotic core from nearby hyperactivity due to viable bone. Whole-body scintigraphy showed remote and multiple metastases in all patients. Orthopantomography showed nonspecific bone rarefaction in all patients but was not able to aid diagnosis of osteonecrosis of the jaw. CT and MRI showed anomalies in all symptomatic patients: CT was helpful in evaluating both cortical and trabecular bone aspects, and MRI was able to detect soft-tissue involvement but not cortical bone destruction.In appropriately selected oncology patients treated with bisphosphonates, an increased uptake of 99mTc-methylene diphosphonate in maxillary bones may suggest probable osteonecrosis of the jaw. In such cases, SPECT/CT may be of value in increasing the diagnostic accuracy of bone scanning, providing a precise functional anatomic correlation for the definition of the extent of disease.