Comparison of dual-energy computed tomography of the heart with single photon emission computed tomography for assessment of coronary artery stenosis and of the myocardial blood supply. To evaluate the performance of dual-energy computed tomography (CT) for integrative imaging of the coronary artery morphology and the myocardial blood supply, 36 patients (15 women, mean age 57 +/- 11 years) with equivocal or incongruous single photon emission CT (SPECT) results were investigated by a single-contrast medium-enhanced, retrospectively electrocardiographic-gated dual-energy CT (DECT) scan with simultaneous acquisition of high and low x-ray spectra. Thirteen patients subsequently underwent invasive coronary angiography (ICA). The DECT data were used to reconstruct anatomic coronary CT angiographic images and to map the myocardial iodine distribution within the left ventricular myocardium. Two independent observers analyzed all DECT studies for stenosis and myocardial iodine defects. A segmental comparison was performed between the stress/rest SPECT perfusion defects and DECT iodine defects and between the ICA and coronary CT angiographic findings for stenosis. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and accuracy were estimated, along with the kappa statistics. Overall, DECT had 92% sensitivity and 93% specificity, with 93% accuracy for detecting any type of myocardial perfusion defect seen on SPECT. Contrast defects at DECT correctly identified 85 (96%) of 89 fixed and 60 (88%) of 68 reversible myocardial perfusion defects. The interobserver agreement was very good (weighted kappa = 0.87). Compared with ICA, coronary CT angiography had 90% sensitivity, 94% specificity, and 93% accuracy for the detection of >50% stenosis. In conclusion, our initial experience suggests that DECT, as a single examination, might be promising for the integrative analysis of the coronary artery morphology and the myocardial blood supply and is in good agreement with ICA and SPECT.