The short peritoneal equilibration test in pediatric peritoneal dialysis. The peritoneal equilibration test (PET) is the gold standard method for defining peritoneal membrane permeability and for prescribing peritoneal dialysis (PD) therapy on an individual basis. However, it is laborious, consumes nursing time, and requires many hours to be performed. Therefore, several authors have attempted to validate a short PET protocol, with controversial results. To evaluate the concordance between the 2-h (short) and 4-h (classical) peritoneal equilibrium test, a prospective observational protocol was applied in three PD centers (Mexico, Chile, and Uruguay) between July 1, 2008 and July 31 2009. PET protocol: the night prior to the test, each patient received five exchanges, 1 h each, at the same glucose concentration as previously used. Afterwards, a 2.5% glucose dialysis solution was used for a dwell time of 4 h. Exchange fill volume was 1,100 ml/m2 body surface area. The next morning, the 4-h dwell was drained, and Dianeal 2.5% was infused. Three dialysate samples at 0, 2, and 4 h were obtained. A single blood sample was obtained at 120 min. Creatinine D/P and glucose D/D0 ratios were calculated at hours 0, 2, and 4. Patients were categorized as low, low average, high average, or high transporters according creat D/P and gluc D/D0 results. Pearson and Kappa test were used for numerical and categorical correlations, respectively, and p<0.05 was considered significant. Eighty-seven PET studies were evaluated in 74 patients, 33 males, age 11.1+/-5.05 years old. A positive linear correlation of 92% between 2 and 4-h creat D/P and 80% between 2 and 4-h gluc D/D0 (p<0.001) was founded. The Kappa test showed a significant concordance between creat D/P and gluc D/D0 categories at 2 and 4 h (p<0.001). When analyzing cut-off-value categories, creat D/P was founded to be lower and gluc D/D0 higher than other experiences. This multicentric prospective study strongly suggests that PET obtained at 2 h and 4 h, based on either creatinine or glucose transport, provides identical characterization of peritoneal membrane transport capacity in PD children.