One year's clinical experience of 18F-FDG PET with a modified SPET camera using molecular coincidence detection. High-quality positron emission tomographic (PET) cameras are expensive and, therefore, not available in many centres. To allow access to clinical 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) PET, we began working with an ADAC Vertex camera equipped with a molecular coincidence detection (MCD) module in February 1997. Here we give a preliminary assessment of the clinical utility of our approach. To date, 109 studies have been performed in MCD-mode using standardized protocols (99 oncology cases, 10 neurology cases). Twenty-eight cardiological and 15 other studies were performed using 511 keV collimators without attenuation correction. The average dose of 18F-FDG for MCD studies was 150 MBq, thus avoiding overloading the detectors cardiac studies required 370 MBq. The results obtained were carefully compared with computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, myocardial perfusion scans, coronary angiography and conventional radiology. The results were compared on a patient basis, including histology, surgical notes, autopsy reports and follow-up data. Oncological studies were performed to assess malignancy in a particular lesion (n = 22), staging of cancer (n = 57) or to evaluate whether therapy had been successful or not (n = 20). Indications for conducting studies were categorized as appropriate (Ia) or adequate (Ib). For Ia category cases, the results were: true-positive = 31, true-negative = 12 and false-positive = 2. For Ib category cases, the corresponding figures were: true-positive = 18, true-negative = 10, false-positive = 3 and false-negative = 1. False-positive studies were a result of inflammatory disease or artefacts. Six cases with temporal lobe epilepsy were correctly identified. In cardiac studies, we also found a good correlation with clinical parameters (i.e. hibernating myocardium or scarred tissue). Altogether, this cost-effective set-up allows nuclear medicine institutions to obtain valuable data in clinical practice with a system used both for single photon emission tomography and PET.