Quantitative thallium-201 and technetium 99m sestamibi tomography at rest in detection of myocardial viability in patients with chronic ischemic left ventricular dysfunction. This study was designed to determine the most effective quantitative threshold for thallium-201 and technetium 99m sestamibi uptake on tomographic imaging after rest injection for the detection of myocardial viability in patients with chronic myocardial infarction.Thallium and sestamibi cardiac tomography at rest was performed in 43 patients with chronic myocardial infarction and impaired left ventricular (LV) function undergoing coronary revascularization. In all patients, echocardiography and radionuclide angiography were performed at baseline and repeated 12 months later to evaluate recovery of regional LV function and LV ejection fraction, respectively. Optimal threshold cutoff points to separate reversible from irreversible dysfunction were determined by receiver operating characteristic analysis. When all dysfunctional segments were considered, the best cutoff point in the identification of reversible LV dysfunction for both thallium and sestamibi activity was 67%. When only akinetic or dyskinetic segments were considered, the best cutoff point in the identification of reversible LV dysfunction was 58% for thallium and 55% for sestamibi. In these segments, the area under the receiving operating characteristic curves constructed for thallium and sestamibi activity were 0.74+/-0.05 and 0.75+/-0.04, respectively (P = not significant). LV ejection fraction was 33%+/-7% at baseline and increased to 37%+/-7% after revascularization (P<.0001). A significant relation between the number of akinetic or dyskinetic but viable myocardial segments and revascularization-induced changes in LV ejection fraction was observed for both thallium (r = 0.60, P<.0001) and sestamibi (r = 0.64, P<.0001) imaging.In patients with chronic myocardial infarction, quantitative analysis of thallium and sestamibi activity on tomographic imaging at rest predicts recovery of regional and global LV dysfunction after revascularization procedures. The most effective quantitative threshold for detecting reversible LV dysfunction is comparable for thallium and sestamibi tomographic imaging. However, the optimal cutoff point is different for both tracers when all dysfunctional segments are considered or when the analysis is focused only on segments with more severe functional impairment (i.e., akinetic or dyskinetic segments).