Use of PET and the radioligand [carbonyl-(11)C]WAY-100635 in psychotropic drug development. Positron-emission tomography (PET) provides potential in neuropsychiatric drug development by expanding knowledge of drug action in the living human brain and reducing time consumption and costs. The 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A) (5-HT(1A)) receptor is of central interest as a target for the treatment of anxiety, depression, and schizophrenia. Research on the clinical significance of the 5-HT(1A) receptor now benefits from the highly selective radioligand [carbonyl-(11)C]WAY-100635 (WAY) for quantitative determination of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the primate and human brain in vivo using PET. In this paper, three studies are reviewed to demonstrate the suitability of WAY as radioligand for quantification of central 5-HT(1A) receptors in brain and as an applicable tool for drug development. In the first study a monkey model was used to characterize WAY binding. It was confirmed that the reference ligand 8-OH-DPAT and psychoactive drugs such as buspirone and pindolol occupies 5-HT(1A) receptors in the primate brain. Pindolol is an beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist with a high affinity to 5-HT(1A) receptors. This drug has been suggested in combination with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors for the treatment of depression and was given to healthy males in the second study. Pindolol induced a marked inhibition of central 5-HT(1A) receptors as calculated by the ratio-analysis method and simplified reference tissue model, 2 h after administration of 10 mg as a single oral dose. This observation suggests that pindolol may have a role for the suggested potentiation of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor treatment of depression. The third study was on robalzotan (NAD-299), a recently developed 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist and putative drug with implications for the treatment of depression. In the cynomolgus monkey brain, robalzotan in the dose range 2-100 microg/kg IV occupied 5-HT(1A) receptors in a dose-dependent and saturable manner with a maximal calculated occupancy of 70-80%. The relationship between robalzotan plasma concentration and 5-HT(1A) receptor occupancy could be described by a hyperbolic function that was used to guide the selection of appropriate doses in man. In a subsequent PET study of robalzotan binding to 5-HT(1A) receptors in the living human brain, similar results have been replicated recently. These studies reviewed here illustrate and corroborate that quantitative neuroimaging of receptor binding has potential for the evaluation and dose finding of new central nervous system drugs.