Calculation and validation of the use of effective attenuation coefficient for attenuation correction in In-111 SPECT. Nuclear medicine tracers using 111In as a radiolabel are increasing in their use, especially in the domain of oncologic imaging. In these applications, it often is critical to have the capability of quantifying radionuclide uptake and being able to relate it to the biological properties of the tumor. However, images from single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) can be degraded by photon attenuation, photon scattering, and collimator blurring without compensation for these effects, image quality can be degraded, and accurate and precise quantification is impossible. Although attenuation correction for SPECT is becoming more common, most implementations can only model single energy radionuclides such as 99mTc and 123I. Thus, attenuation correction for 111In is challenging because it emits two photons (171 and 245 keV) at nearly equal rates (90.2% and 94% emission probabilities). In this paper, we present a method of calculating a single "effective" attenuation coefficient for the dual-energy emissions of 111In, and that can be used to correct for photon attenuation in radionuclide images acquired with this radionuclide. Using this methodology, we can derive an effective linear attenuation coefficient Micro(eff) and an effective photon energy E(eff) based on the emission probabilities and linear attenuation coefficients of the 111In photons. This approach allows us to treat the emissions from 111In as a single photon with an effective energy of 210 keV. We obtained emission projection data from a tank filled with a uniform solution of 111In. The projection data were reconstructed using an iterative maximum-likelihood algorithm with no attenuation correction, and with attenuation correction assuming photon energies of 171, 245, and 210 keV (the derived E(eff)). The reconstructed tomographic images demonstrate that the use of no attenuation correction, or correction assuming photon energies of 171 or 245 keV introduces inaccuracies into the reconstructed radioactivity distribution when compared against the effective energy method. In summary, this work provides both a theoretical framework and experimental methodology of attenuation correction for the dual-energy emissions from 111In. Although these results are specific to 111In, the foundation could easily be extended to other multiple-energy isotopes.