Chiral donor photoinduced-electron-transfer (d-PET) boronic acid chemosensors for the selective recognition of tartaric acids, disaccharides, and ginsenosides. A modular approach was proposed for the preparation of chiral fluorescent molecular sensors, in which the fluorophore, scaffold, and chirogenic center can be connected by ethynyl groups, and these modules can easily be changed to other structures to optimize the molecular sensing performance of the sensors. This modular strategy to assembly chiral sensors alleviated the previous restrictions of chiral boronic acid sensors, for which the chirogenic center, fluorophore, and scaffold were integrated, thus it was difficult to optimize the molecular structures by chemical modifications. We demonstrated the potential of our new strategy by the preparation of a sensor with a larger scaffold. The photoinduced electron-transfer (PET) effect is efficient even with a large distance between the N atom and the fluorophore core. Furthermore, the rarely reported donor-PET (d-PET) effect, which was previously limited to carbazole, was extended to phenothiazine fluorophore. The contrast ratio, that is, PET efficiency of the new d-PET sensor, is increased to 8.0, compared to 2.0 with the previous carbazole d-PET sensors. Furthermore, the ethynylated phenothiazine shows longer excitation wavelength (centered at 380 nm) and emission wavelength (492 nm), a large Stokes shift (142 nm), and high fluorescence quantum yield in aqueous solution (Φ=0.48 in MeOH/water, 3:1 v/v). Enantioselective recognition of tartaric acid was achieved with the new d-PET boronic acid sensors. The enantioselectivity is up to 10 (ratio of the binding constants toward D- and L-tartaric acid, k(D)/k(L)). A consecutive fluorescence enhancement/decrease was observed, thus we propose a transition of the binding stoichiometry from 1:1 to 1:2 as the analyte concentration increases, which is supported by mass spectra analysis. The boronic acid sensors were used for selective and sensitive recognition of disaccharides and glycosylated steroids (ginsenosides).