Serial evaluation of flow in single or arterial Y-grafts to the left coronary artery. It is unclear whether composite Y-grafts can withstand the flow demand of the coronary system at rest and under stress. This study compared the graft flow and flow reserve of the left internal mammary artery (LIMA) intraoperatively and over a 2-year follow-up in single or composite Y-graft configurations using the radial artery (RA).One hundred patients who underwent off-pump myocardial revascularization with a composite Y-graft (group 2) were compared with a homogeneous group of 100 patients treated with a single independent LIMA graft on the left anterior descending artery (LAD) (group 1). Intraoperative baseline flow and flow after adenosine infusion into the left ventricle were analyzed. Over a 2-year follow-up, noninvasive longitudinal evaluation of flow was carried out at rest and during maximal hyperemic response by transthoracic Doppler ultrasonography. Final functional evaluation was obtained through a 2-day stress/rest 99mTc-sestamibi myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomographic scan.The proximal LIMA in a Y-graft configuration showed adaptability to flow dynamics. It had a greater average peak velocity (p = 0.02), flow volume (p < 0.01), and diameter (p < 0.01) than independent single LIMA grafts. Distal flow at rest and during adenosine recruitment was similar between groups both intraoperatively and at all time points of the follow-up. No steal phenomenon occurred at rest, nor was it induced by adenosine in the Y-graft group. Exercise nuclear scintigraphy showed satisfactory exercise tolerance and no inducible significant perfusion defects in both groups.Left internal mammary artery Y-grafting with the RA is adequate for flow requirements of distal branches at rest and during maximal hyperemia and is able to adapt its dimension to flow demand. Optimal results for RA anastomoses are possible only in arteries with critical stenosis and of good size and quality.