Quantitative study of lung perfusion SPECT scanning and pulmonary function testing for early radiation-induced lung injury in patients with locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Radiation lung injury is a common side-effect of pulmonary radiotherapy. The aim of this study was to quantitatively assess early changes in lung perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scanning and pulmonary function testing (PFT) prior to and after intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) for patients suffering from locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (LANSCLC). Twenty patients with LANSCLC received lung perfusion SPECT scanning and PFT prior to IMRT and immediately after IMRT. Lung perfusion index (LPI) was calculated after the quantification of perfusion SPECT images. The LPI of the two groups was analyzed by matched t-test. The radioactive count of each layer of single lung was added to obtain the sum of the irradiated area. The percentage of the irradiated area of single lung was calculated. Linear correlation analysis was carried out between the percentage of the irradiated area and LPI in order to verify the validity of LPI. In this study, LPI and the percentage of the irradiated area of single lung exhibited an excellent correlation either prior to or after IMRT (r=0.820 and r=0.823, respectively p<0.001). There was no statistically significant difference between pre-IMRT LPI and post-IMRT LPI (p=0.135). LPI in the group receiving a radical dose had no statistically significant difference (p=0.993), however, it showed a statistically significant difference in the group receiving a non-radical dose (p=0.025). In the non-radical dose group, the post-IMRT LPI was larger compared to pre-IMRT. None of the parameters of PFT exhibited a statistically significant difference prior to and after IMRT (p>0.05). The quantitative method of lung perfusion SPECT scanning can be used to evaluate changes in perfusion early in patients receiving a non-radical dose (BED ≤126,500 cGy) IMRT. Evaluating early changes in global lung function using the current method of PFT is difficult, since time can be a contributing factor for radiation-induced lung injury.