SPECT imaging in cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral vasospasm is a frequent complication after subarachnoid hemorrhage and contributes to overall morbidity and mortality. Arteriography is the standard test for determining the presence of vasospasm. A retrospective review of 16 patients with cerebral aneurysm was undertaken to assess the sensitivity and specificity of SPECT for diagnosis of vasospasm. Fourteen patients were hospitalized after subarachnoid hemorrhage and 2 patients were hospitalized for elective aneurysmal clipping. The patients' condition on discharge was correlated to clinical and SPECT evidence of vasospasm.Vasospasm was defined as the new onset of neurological signs and symptoms not explained by rebleed or hydrocephalus. A total of 20 SPECT studies were performed for 16 patients during their admission and 14 of 16 patients had a single angiographic study.Thirteen of 16 patients had 14 episodes of clinical evidence of vasospasm and 14 SPECT studies were performed in these 13 patients. The sensitivity and specificity of SPECT in this retrospective study were 89% (8/9) and 71% (5/7), respectively. Our small sample of arteriograms yielded in comparison a sensitivity of 67% (2/3) and specificity of 100% (9/9). The one false-negative SPECT study occurred in conjunction with the one false-negative arteriogram in the presence of clinical findings consistent with vasospasm. Three false-positive SPECT studies occurred in 2 patients who had perfusion abnormalities in areas of normal CT findings without clinical or arteriographic evidence of vasospasm. Five of 5 patients who died became unresponsive as a result of clinically presumed vasospasm and 4 of 5 of these patients had diffuse or hemispheric SPECT perfusion defects. Of the 11 patients who survived, none became unresponsive 1 of 11 had positive diffuse or hemispheric perfusion defects.SPECT is a sensitive and fairly specific test for corroboration of clinical findings of vasospasm. A negative SPECT study may obviate the need for arteriography. Unresponsiveness is the best predictor of poor outcome however, hemispheric SPECT perfusion deficits are also associated with poor outcome.