Use of subtraction ictal SPECT co-registered to MRI for optimizing the localization of seizure foci in children. Ictal SPECT studies are increasingly used to localize seizure foci in children with refractory epilepsy, but few studies have reported on ictal-interictal subtraction images co-registered to MRI at this age.Twenty-seven children with partial epilepsy (aged 3 mo-18 y) underwent ictal ethyl cysteinate dimer (ECD) SPECT (20 mCi/1.73 m2) combined with video-electroencephalography (EEG) and interictal ECD SPECT followed 2 d later by three-dimensional MRI. Ictal-interictal and interictal-ictal subtraction images were computed by registering and normalizing the ictal to the interictal SPECT scans for each child. The ictal, interictal SPECT and subtraction images were registered to each child's MRI. Difference images (ictal-interictal) were then superimposed on MRI for anatomic localization of the perfusion changes. Intra- and interobserver reproducibility and "facility of interpretation" of overlay images were compared with standard analysis of the non-coregistered ictal and interictal scans.Overlay images allowed the detection of at least one hyperperfused focus in 93% of the children, compared with 74% using ictal and interictal scans separately. Seizure onset was suspected clinically, on EEG or on MRI in 20 children. Overlay images were concordant (n = 11) or larger (n = 7) than the suspected focus in 18 of 20 (90%), whereas these images failed to show any abnormality in 1 child and were discordant with MRI in another patient. In the remaining 7, images showed cortical localization in 6 patients. Among the 5 patients who underwent electrocorticography, overlay images were concordant in 3, larger in 1 and absent in 1. The intra- and interobserver reproducibility and facility of interpretation were significantly higher using overlay images than standard analysis, even when ictal and interictal SPECT were co-registered.The co-registration of ictal-interictal subtraction SPECT images to MRI seems to be a helpful technique in localizing the onset of seizure and guiding the intracranial recording in childhood epilepsy. Moreover, this method improves sensitivity, enhances intra- and interobserver reproducibility and makes interpretation easier.