Clinical assessment of myocardial viability using MRI during a constant infusion of Gd-DTPA. This study assessed the accuracy and feasibility of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during a constant infusion of gadolinium diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (Gd-DTPA) for the determination of myocardial viability in patients with recent acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Nine patients were studied within 10 days of AMI. Rest-redistribution 201Thallium (201Tl) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was used as a gold standard for viability. Using MRI, regional perfusion was assessed using dynamic imaging during a bolus injection of Gd-DTPA and viability was assessed during a continuous infusion. Finally, cine MR images were acquired at baseline, during low-dose dobutamine infusion and after recovery. To assess viability, the left ventricle was divided into 16 segments and signal intensity in corresponding MRI and redistribution SPECT segments were compared. Wall thickening index (WTI) was determined at each step during the dobutamine study. The results revealed that in five patients, reduced perfusion in infarcted regions was observed qualitatively during dynamic first pass imaging. There was a significant inverse correlation between 201Tl uptake and MRI signal intensity, i.e. infarcted tissue (low 201Tl uptake) had increased MR signal intensity. Segments were separated into normal (201Tl uptake > 90%) and infarcted (< 601%). lnfarcted MRI segments had greater signal intensity than normal segments (179 +/- 50 vs. 102 +/- 14% P < 0.0001). WTI in normal segments increased by 18 +/- 8.5% (P < 0.0001) from baseline to 10 microg/kg per min of dobutamine while infarcted tissue WTI decreased 2.8 +/- 7.2% (P = 0.17). Thus regions of myocardium that were infarcted as defined by reduced 201Tl uptake and absent contractile reserve showed greatly increased MRI signal intensity during a constant infusion of Gd-DTPA. The use of MRI during a constant infusion of Gd-DTPA is accurate and feasible for the determination of myocardial necrosis in a clinical setting.