Preoperative motor system brain mapping using positron emission tomography and statistical parametric mapping: hints on cortical reorganisation. This study investigated the applicability of statistical parametric mapping (SPM) for analysing individual preoperative brain mapping studies in patients with cerebral mass lesions for neurosurgical planning. The study further investigated if hints on functional reorganisation processes can be found.Nine adult patients with cerebral mass lesions underwent activation [(15)O]water-PET under stimulation by finger (n=9) and foot (n=4) movement. Individual SPM-t-maps were computed without anatomical normalisation and coregistered to the individual magnetic resonance imaging. Relative cerebral blood flow change maps were calculated for comparison.The spatial relation between the sensorimotor cortex and the lesion could be determined in all cases. Additional activations covered the ipsilateral sensorimotor cortex and the bilateral cerebellum, premotor cortices and supplementary motor areas. Patients with motor symptoms of the stimulated hand (paresis, focal seizures) activated the ipsilateral premotor cortices and contralateral cerebellum more often than patients without motor symptoms. The SPM results for p<0.005 and cerebral blood flow change maps showed considerably overlapping motor area activations. For p<0.001, SPM missed three sensorimotor cortex activations depicted by cerebral blood flow change maps and by SPM for p<0.005 in typical localisation. SPM analyses showed less activations probably unrelated to task performance.It is concluded that SPM provides an efficient method for analysing individual preoperative PET activation studies. Activations of the ipsilateral premotor cortices and contralateral cerebellum may indicate an enhanced recruitment of ipsilateral motor pathways evoked by functional reorganisation processes. However, this changed activation pattern was not necessarily associated with a better neurological status.