UV-O3-treated and protein-coated polymer surfaces facilitate endothelial cell adhesion and proliferation mediated by the PKCalpha/ERK/cPLA2 pathway. We examined the adhesion and proliferation of immortalized endothelial cells GP8.39 (ECs) onto polyethyleneterephtalate (PET) and polyhydroxymethylsiloxane (PHMS) thin films, functionalized by UV-O(3) treatment and/or protein immobilization. The modified surface topography showed partial oxidation for both polymers, a slight increase in wettability and monopolar basic character for PET, and a hydrophilic bipolar acid-base behaviour for PHMS. UV-O(3) treatment did not induce significant roughness changes (under 1 nm) as shown by atomic force spectroscopy measurements (AFM). The EC adhesion and spreading onto untreated and modified surfaces were investigated both before and after immobilization of collagen (CA) and fibronectin (FN) adlayers. AFM analyses showed an open-weave protein layer on both untreated polymers which became a tight-woven net after UV-O(3) irradiation of underlying films. On day 5 after seeding, cell count analyses on irradiated PET surfaces, CA/FN-coated or not, showed EC adhesion and proliferation significantly greater than those on untreated polymers, indicating that UV-O(3) irradiation promoted fast endothelialization. A less pronounced EC spreading behaviour on treated PHMS was observed. In ECs grown on irradiated and CA- or FN-coated PET, the levels of phospho-protein kinase Calpha (p-PKCalpha, phospho-ERK1/2, and phospho-cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (p-cPLA(2)), all enzymes taken as signaling markers of cell adhesion and proliferation, decreased in comparison to those in CA- or FN-coated untreated PET. In contrast, in ECs grown on UV-O(3)-treated PHMS, Western blot analyses showed increased levels of p-PKCalpha, p-ERK1/2 and p-cPLA(2) in comparison with cells grown onto untreated polymer. The growth response of ECs to the substrates was related to the changes of polarity properties of UV-O(3)-treated polymer films, from hydrophobic/neutral towards hydrophilic/charged layers, and the signaling pathway remodelling to the cell proliferation degree.