Prognosis in patients with left ventricular apical aneurysm diagnosed by thallium-201 or Tc-99m sestamibi SPECT images. The prognosis of patients with left ventricular (LV) aneurysm diagnosed by thallium single-photon emission computed tomography (Tl-SPECT) or technetium-99m sestamibi SPECT (MIBI) has not previously been defined. Of 9,505 Tl or MIBI patients, 139 with apical infarct and probable LV aneurysm on tomographic images were identified. Patients were grouped by the presence of divergent versus parallel LV walls. Divergent walls show increasing separation of the walls as they approach the apex on vertical or horizontal long-axis slices. The degree of the deformation at the apex (divergent vs parallel walls), extent of impaired myocardium (total number of pixels in the defect/total number of pixels in the myocardium x 100%), percentage of reversibility, and segmental and total severity of standard deviations of perfusion defects were calculated. Seventy-six patients underwent contrast ventriculography. Patients with divergent walls (n = 57) were older (p = 0.05), had lower ejection fractions (p = 0.012), higher lung uptake (only Tl patients (p = 0.06), and more frequent ST elevation on the resting electrocardiogram (p = 0.009) than patients with nondivergent (parallel) walls. For both groups, the percent impaired myocardium was comparably high (44 +/- 9% vs 46 +/- 10%). Analysis of asynergic segments in 76 patients who underwent contrast ventriculography showed more akinetic, paradoxical, or aneurysmal segments in the apical region of the left ventricle in the group with SPECT divergent walls. Cox model analysis showed divergence as the significant correlate of death. At 5 years, survival for the group with divergent walls was 52% compared with 75% for those with nondivergent walls (p = 0.008). Despite significant apical LV impairment in both groups, mortality was almost twice as high in the group with divergent walls compared with patients with parallel walls. Thus, patients with LV aneurysm diagnosed by radionuclide SPECT perfusion imaging have a higher mortality when displaying a divergent wall pattern than patients with lesser deformity.