Cardiofocal collimators for gated single-photon emission tomographic myocardial perfusion imaging. Cardiofocal collimators (CFCs) are more sensitive than parallel-hole collimators (PHCs) of the same resolution because the rays converge in the centre of the field of view. After reconstruction a useful field of view with a 10 cm radius in which both sensitivity and resolution are homogeneous is obtained. In this article the feasibility and accuracy of gated single-photon emission tomographic (gated SPET) myocardial perfusion imaging using a triple-head camera equipped with CFC, is evaluated. Twenty patients with a history of myocardial infarction were studied. SPET myocardial perfusion images, gated in eight time bins, were acquired in a random sequence with a PHC and a CFC for each patient. Imaging was started 60 min after the injection of 925 MBq of technetium-99m tetrofosmin at rest. Ninety-six projections over 360 degrees were acquired, with 32 stops of 40 s for the PHC and 20 s for the CFC in order to obtain similar count densities. The extent (EXT) and severity (SEV) of perfusion defects were quantified on polar maps using the non-gated data. Left ventricular volumes [end-diastolic volume (EDV), end-systolic volume (ESV)] and ejection fraction (LVEF) were calculated from gated data using the Cedars-Sinai program. In 17 of 20 patients the complete left ventricle was positioned within the useful field of view of the CFC. The results in respect of perfusion, volumes and ejection fraction were almost identical to those obtained with the PHC. The mean difference+/-SD between the CFC and the PHC was -2.30+/-7.16 (% of LV area) for EXT, -0.48+/-2.90 for SEV (arbitrary units), -1,50+/-5.25 (ml) for EDV and 0.53+/-4.10 (%) for LVEF. The largest differences in EXT and LV volumes were observed in patients in whom a part of the LV was not positioned within the useful field of view. We conclude that, for the majority of patients, identical information with regard to both perfusion and function can be derived from gated SPET myocardial perfusion studies obtained with PHCs or with CFCs. Because of the greater sensitivity, however, a much shorter acquisition time is required with CFCs.