An autopsy case with subacute spinal cord disease showing progressive paraplegia. We report a 72-year-old woman who died of respitory failure. History included onset of diabetes mellitus at the age of 67 years and hypertension at the age of 72 years. The patient had been in good health otherwise until 2000, when she had onset of numbness or tingling of the bilateral lower limbs. On December 3, 2000, she was admitted to a hospital in the vicinity of her home because of the above-mentioned complaints. Neurological examinations revealed progressive paraplegia. Symptoms and signs suggested Guillain-Barré syndrome. Examinations of cerebrospinal fluids revealed cell count of 338/3 (mono 72%, poly 18%) and protein value of 100 mg/dl. Later the patient course deteriorated. On December 15, 2000, she was admitted to Hakujikai Memorial Hospital for the second time. Ten days later, MRI examination showed diffuse swelling of the spinal cord from the cervical (C 3/4) level to the thoracic level. Gd-enhanced T 1-weighted MRI performed 22 days later showed a partially enhanced lesion at the thoracic (Th 5/6) level of the spinal cord. The patient was treated with steroid therapy (methylprednisolone 500 mg/dl). She died of respiratory failure on January 6, 2001. The patient was presented in a neurological CPC. Neurological and imaging findings suggested a transverse myelopathy. However, there were several points in this case that were unusual for a typical transverse myelopathy, such as total sensory loss below spinal segments of thoracic level (Th 5) and motor weakness of the upper limbs of upper segment of the same level. A clinical neurologist concluded that the patient had subacute transverse myelopathy with fused multiple pathy pathologic lesions. We discussed whether this case was a transverse myelopathy or multiple sclerosis. Post mortem examination revealed acute necrotic myelopathy affecting the spinal cord from the second cervical to the tenth thoracic vertebrae, with conspicuous infiltration of CD 68-positive macrophages involving both gray and white matter, partially necrotic associated with scattered UCHL-1 dominants lymphocytic infiltration of T cells around vessels. There were relatively older lesions with demyelinating features in the spinal roots that were particularly dominant in the anterior roots. No demyelinated plaques in the optic chiasm, tracts and nerves, or in the cerebero-cerebellar white matter were found. Systemic pathological diagnosis was lung edema with fresh hemorrhage, pancreatic atrophy consistent with diabetes mellitus and choleductlithiasis.