Mucinous cystadenoma of the pancreas associated with acute pancreatitis and concurrent pancreatic pseudocyst. We report an unusual occurrence of a recurrent pancreatic pseudocyst caused by an underlying mucinous cystadenoma of the distal pancreas. A 54-year old female was admitted for acute pancreatitis. Her only risk factors included the use of hydrochlorothiazide and two or three glasses of wine daily. Abdominal computed tomography (CT) done a week after onset of her symptoms showed a 5-cm cystic lesion in the tail of the pancreas suspected to be a pseudocyst. Her symptoms subsequently resolved. One month later, she had another episode of pancreatitis and an abdominal CT showed an 11 x 16 cm pseudocyst along with the previously mentioned cystic lesion. Approximately 6 weeks after her initial presentation, she was taken to the operating room for an exploratory laparotomy and cyst gastrostomy for a symptomatic pseudocyst. An intraoperative frozen section of the cyst wall showed a fibrous wall with acute and chronic inflammation without an epithelial lining. Six weeks after her cyst gastrostomy, she returned with abdominal pain, early satiety, and anorexia. Abdominal CT showed reaccumulation of fluid within the pseudocyst and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) revealed a normal caliber pancreatic duct with an abrupt cutoff at the distal duct. She underwent exploratory laparotomy with drainage of 3 L of fluid from the pancreatic pseudocyst. After gaining access to the lesser sac, a 6-cm cystic lesion was identified in the tail of the pancreas. She underwent a distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy. The intraoperative and final pathology confirmed the presence of a benign mucinous cystadenoma. The patient had an uneventful recovery, began to tolerate oral intake, and was discharged 7 days after surgery. The differentiation between a pancreatic pseudocyst and benign cystic neoplasms of the pancreas is crucial to determine treatment options. Cystic neoplasms of the pancreas, whether mucinous or serous, have the potential to harbor malignancy, and resection is recommended.