64-slice CT perfusion imaging of pancreatic adenocarcinoma and mass-forming chronic pancreatitis. To investigate 64 computed tomography (CT) perfusion imaging features of patients with pancreatic cancer and mass-forming chronic pancreatitis.Between January 2003 and April 2010, 234 patients with pancreatic mass underwent 64-CT perfusion imaging. Among them, the histopathological results of 64 patients were proven to be pancreatic adenocarcinoma and 15 patients were proven to be mass-forming chronic pancreatitis. Additionally, CT perfusion imaging was performed in 33 healthy volunteers served as controls. The slice data were processed using CT perfusion software. Perfusion parameters including time density curve, blood flow, blood volume, permeability, peak enhancement, and time to peak were recorded.Blood flow was 77% lower in patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma than in controls, 48% lower in patients with mass-forming chronic pancreatitis than in controls, and 56% lower in patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma than with mass-forming chronic pancreatitis (P < .016). Blood volume was 65% lower in pancreatic adenocarcinoma than in controls, 27% lower in mass-forming chronic pancreatitis than in controls, and 53% lower in cancer than mass-forming chronic pancreatitis (P < .016). Permeability was 559% higher in pancreatic adenocarcinoma than in controls, 821% higher in mass-forming chronic pancreatitis than in controls, and 28% lower in cancer than mass-forming chronic pancreatitis (P < .016). Peak enhancement was 27% lower and time to peak 23% longer in pancreatic adenocarcinoma than mass-forming chronic pancreatitis (P < .016). Time-density curve showed the peak of mass-forming chronic pancreatitis is earlier and higher than that of pancreatic adenocarcinoma, and the peak of mass-forming chronic pancreatitis is later and lower than that of controls.CT perfusion imaging can provide additional quantitative hemodynamic information of pancreatic adenocarcinoma and mass-forming chronic pancreatitis.