Rectal cancer and Trousseau syndrome. Case report. The Trousseau syndrome, first described in 1865, is the relationship of venous thromboembolisms and cancer. We present a case with rectal cancer and Trousseau syndrome.Female 40 years old, went to the Coloproctology Service for painless bleeding. A computed tomography report showed a tumor of 5 by 6 cm up 5 cm from the anal margin. Ultra-low anterior resection with colonic reservoir and loop ileostomy surgery was performed. The pathology report showed a semidiferenciate adenocarcinoma of the rectum and we established the stage as T3N0M0. Within 72 hours of her operation, she experienced sudden hypotension and painful abdominal distention. A second surgery was done finding necrosis of the colon from the splenic angle until the colonic reservoir with thrombi in the left colic artery, ischemic signs of bilateral fallopian tubes, ovaries, uterus, pelvic floor and the small intestine, 40 cm before ileostomy and ileon. Left hemicolectomy and colostomy was done. She was taken to intensive care where continuous administration of heparin was given she died within 5 days because of multiorgan failure.The mechanism for this syndrome was unknown but there are several hypotheses, suggesting that hematological cancer patients are at an increased risk of deep vein thrombosis. Pancreatic cancer is the most common presentation with this syndrome (in 50% of cases). We suggested continuing with the standards of prevention of thromboembolism.antecedentes: el síndrome de Trousseau se describió por primera vez en 1865 es la relación entre tromboembolismo venoso y cáncer. Objetivo: informar el caso de una paciente con cáncer de recto y síndrome de Trousseau. Caso clínico: paciente femenina de 40 años de edad que acudió al servicio de Coloproctología por rectorragia indolora. La TAC reportó un tumor de 5 por 6cm y del margen anal a 5cm. Se efectuó resección anterior ultrabaja, con reservorio colónico e ileostomía de protección. El reporte de patología fue de: adenocarcinoma semidiferenciado del recto, con clasificación T3N0M0. A las 72 horas del postoperatorio tuvo hipotensión arterial súbita y distensión abdominal dolorosa. En la reintervención quirúrgica se encontró: necrosis del colon desde el ángulo esplénico hasta el reservorio colónico, con trombos en meso, signos de isquemia en el útero, trompa de Falopio y ovarios, piso pélvico y 40 cm de intestino delgado, antes de la ileostomía e íleon. Se realizó hemicolectomía izquierda y colostomía. Se trasladó a la unidad de terapia intensiva donde continuó con la administración de heparina