Autoimmune pancreatitis in a patient with ulcerative colitis simulating a pancreatic tumor. Pancreatic endocrine and/or exocrine functional disorders can be commonly detected in patients with inflammatory bowel diseases. Autoimmune pancreatitis is a rare disease and its co-existence with inflammatory bowel disease has been rarely reported. The diagnosis of autoimmune pancreatitis is difficult due to variable nonspecific symptoms, and the high rate of asymptomatic cases. The conventional imaging scans (ultrasonography, computed tomography, retrograde cholangiography) are usually not sensitive enough and they are frequently not able to differentiate between inflammatory and malignant tumorous diseases of the pancreas. The authors present the case history of a patient who developed both ulcerative colitis and autoimmune pancreatitis. The morphological changes of the pancreas detected by ultrasonography suggested the presence of pancreatic cancer, and this diagnosis was supported by the elevated level of serum CA19-9. Computed tomography failed to identify abnormalities in the pancreas and, finally, endoscopic ultrasound combined with fine needle aspiration cytology confirmed the diagnosis of autoimmune pancreatitis.Gyulladásos bélbetegségekben gyakran kimutatható a pancreas endokrin és/vagy exokrin funkciójának károsodása, amelynek ritka oka az autoimmun pancreatitis. Együttes előfordulásuk pontos gyakorisága nem ismert, esetismertetések formájában jelenik meg a szakirodalomban. Diagnosztikus nehézséget jelent, hogy az autoimmun pancreatitis tünetei igen változatosak lehetnek, és magas a tünetszegény esetek aránya is. A hagyományos képalkotó vizsgálatok (ultrahang, komputertomográfia, retrográd cholangiographia) gyakran nem elég érzékenyek, és a gyulladásos eredetű gócok malignus daganat képét utánozhatják. A szerzők proctitis ulcerosa és az autoimmun pancreatitis ritka kombinációjával járó esetét ismertetik. A diagnózist nehezítette, hogy az ultrahangvizsgálat során a pancreas morfológiai eltérései daganat lehetőségét vetették fel, és ezt az emelkedett CA19-9-érték is támogatta. A komputertomográfia az eltérést nem tudta vizualizálni. A helyes diagnózis felállításában az endoszonográfiának és az ultrahang vezérelt mintavételnek volt döntő szerepe. Orv. Hetil., 2014, 155(25), 1000–1004.