Inhibition of human pancreatic cancer cell (MIA PaCa-2) growth by cholera toxin and 8-chloro-cAMP in vitro. The effects of cholera toxin (CT) and 8-chloro-cAMP (8-Cl-cAMP) on cell growth were investigated using two human pancreatic carcinoma cell lines (MIA PaCa-2, Panc-1). CT, which catalyses the ADP ribosylation of Gs, suppresses the proliferation of MIA PaCa-2(PC) cells. CT at the low dose of 0.1 pg ml-1 was inhibitory of PC cell growth, and the maximum suppression (70%) was achieved at a CT concentration of 100 pg ml-1. This phenomenon was reversible. The production of cAMP by CT (100 pg ml-1) in PC cells was enhanced 320-fold compared with the control. In addition, cAMP analogues (8-Cl-cAMP, 8-Br-cAMP) and forskolin decreased the growth rate of PC cells in a dose-dependent manner. These results support the view that CT suppresses PC cell growth by stimulating cAMP production. Conversely, Panc-1 cells were far less sensitive to CT in cell growth and cAMP production. 8-Cl-cAMP was also less effective on Panc-1 cell growth. The binding of an insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I and transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha, which has been shown to stimulate PC cell growth in an autocrine manner, to PC cells was not modified in cells treated with CT or 8-Cl-cAMP. The results suggest that the inhibitory actions of these substances do not occur at the level of the receptor for IGF-I or EGF/TGF-alpha. We have previously shown that phorbol esters, which decrease the binding of TGF-alpha to PC cells, has an anti-proliferative activity on these tumour cells. Inhibited cell growth by maximum suppressive dose of CT or 8-Cl-cAMP was further inhibited by TPA. In addition, an oncogene product of K-ras which is commonly activated in pancreatic cancer, was increased by CT and 8-Cl-cAMP. It is concluded that CT and 8-Cl-cAMP inhibit PC cell growth, presumably in a similar manner, and their mechanism(s) of action may be different from that of TPA. The anti-proliferative effect of CT or 8-Cl-cAMP was enhanced by TPA, implying that the combination of these substances results in increased inhibition of the PC cell growth.