Neural networks for internal reading and visual imagery of reading: a PET study. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measurements with positron emission tomography (PET) were made on 10 volunteers in rest condition as well as while the subjects, with closed eyes, (i) internally listed the letters of the alphabet and cited the first verse of the Hungarian national anthem, (ii) visualised the capital letters of the alphabet, and (iii) visualised the capital letters of the first verse of the Hungarian national anthem. Significant changes in rCBF indicated various networks of cortical neuronal populations active during the tasks. Internal listing, as compared to the rest condition, activated the left precentral gyrus. Visualising the letters of the alphabet, when compared to the rest condition, activated a cortical network comprising fields along the banks of the left and right intraparietal sulci, the left medial frontal, precentral and occipital sulci, and the right superior frontal gyrus. Visualising the letters of the anthem, when compared to the rest condition, activated a cortical network comprising fields along the banks of the left and right intraparietal sulci, the left medial and inferior frontal gyri, and the right anterior cingulate gyrus. Contrasting the two visualisation tasks revealed task specific activation in the left lateral occipital gyrus (alphabet vs. anthem visualisation) and in the left anterior cingulate gyrus (anthem vs. alphabet visualisation). The data indicate that visual imagery of letters of the alphabet or a text engages a widespread network of cortical fields in the visual association cortices and the frontal cortex, without the engagement of the primary (V1) and secondary (V2) visual cortical areas. This finding supports the hypothesis that neuronal populations engaged by visual imagery and visual perception only partially overlap. The networks, activated in the visualisation tasks, have a core which is identical in the different visualisation tasks. The core network is complemented in a task-specific manner by the recruitment of additional cortical neuronal populations.