A cyclic GMP-dependent calcium-activated chloride current in smooth-muscle cells from rat mesenteric resistance arteries. We have previously demonstrated the presence of a cyclic GMP (cGMP)-dependent calcium-activated inward current in vascular smooth-muscle cells, and suggested this to be of importance in synchronizing smooth-muscle contraction. Here we demonstrate the characteristics of this current. Using conventional patch-clamp technique, whole-cell currents were evoked in freshly isolated smooth-muscle cells from rat mesenteric resistance arteries by elevation of intracellular calcium with either 10 mM caffeine, 1 microM BAY K8644, 0.4 microM ionomycin, or by high calcium concentration (900 nM) in the pipette solution. The current was found to be a calcium-activated chloride current with an absolute requirement for cyclic GMP (EC50 6.4 microM). The current could be activated by the constitutively active subunit of PKG. Current activation was blocked by the protein kinase G antagonist Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMP or with a peptide inhibitor of PKG, or with the nonhydrolysable ATP analogue AMP-PNP. Under biionic conditions, the anion permeability sequence of the channel was SCN- > Br- > I- > Cl- > acetate > F- > aspartate, but the conductance sequence was I- > Br- > Cl- > acetate > F- > aspartate = SCN-. The current had no voltage or time dependence. It was inhibited by nickel and zinc ions in the micromolar range, but was unaffected by cobalt and had a low sensitivity to inhibition by the chloride channel blockers niflumic acid, DIDS, and IAA-94. The properties of this current in mesenteric artery smooth-muscle cells differed from those of the calcium-activated chloride current in pulmonary myocytes, which was cGMP-independent, exhibited a high sensitivity to inhibition by niflumic acid, was unaffected by zinc ions, and showed outward current rectification as has previously been reported for this current. Under conditions of high calcium in the patch-pipette solution, a current similar to the latter could be identified also in the mesenteric artery smooth-muscle cells. We conclude that smooth-muscle cells from rat mesenteric resistance arteries have a novel cGMP-dependent calcium-activated chloride current, which is activated by intracellular calcium release and which has characteristics distinct from other calcium-activated chloride currents.