Cloning and expression of hTRF1 in Escherichia coli and preparation of polyclonal antibody. Human telomeric repeat binding factor 1(TRF1) contains one Myb-type DNA-binding repeat and an amino-terminal acidic domain. It can bind to the duplex array of TTAGGG repeats at chromosome ends and is shown to be important in preserving genomic stability, maintaining cell proliferative capacity, and blocking the activation of DNA-damage cell cycle checkpoints. Interestingly, the double strand DNA breaks sensor ATM interacts with and phosphorylates Pin2/TRF1 and inhibits its function after DNA damage. Are there some proteins else that can interact with TRF1 and influence its function? In order to analysis the interaction between TRF1 and other proteins, we must prepare the antiserum that can recognize the endogenous TRF1 of cell lysates. TRF1 cDNA was amplified using cDNA Library of HeLa cell by PCR and cloned into pUCm-T vector. Sequence analysis reveals identity to the GenBank report. The TRF1 cDNA was subcloned into expression vector pET-28c(+) and expressed in E. coli as a fusion protein of 65 kD. The recombinant TRF1 can express in the supernatant (about 12.3% in total protein) on the induction of 0.5 mmol/L IPTG at 37 degrees C for 3 hours. Western-blot analysis showed the recombinant protein can react with TRF1 polyclonal antibody sc-6165 (from Santa Cruz Company). His6-TRF1 was purified by Ni(2+) -NTA resin affinity chromatography made by ourselves and showed to be homogeneity in SDS-PAGE. Rabbits were immunized for four times to prepare polyclonal antibody. The unpurified antiserum can recognize the overexpressed TRF1 with myc-tag and the endogenous Pin2/TRF1 of cell lysate by Western-blot at 1:1000 dilution. At 1:400 dilution, the antiserum can interact with endogenous TRF1 by Immunofluorescence cell staining analysis. The endogenous TRF1 in different cell lines, such as HepG2, 803, MCF7 and HeLa, locates in the nucleus. The soluble expression TRF1 and preparation of its antibody lay the foundation to study it further.