18F-FDOPA kinetics in brain tumors. L-3,4-Dihydroxy-6-(18)F-fluoro-phenyl-alanine ((18)F-FDOPA) is an amino acid analog used to evaluate presynaptic dopaminergic neuronal function. Evaluation of tumor recurrence in neurooncology is another application. Here, the kinetics of (18)F-FDOPA in brain tumors were investigated.A total of 37 patients underwent 45 studies 10 had grade IV, 10 had grade III, and 13 had grade II brain tumorsA 2-compartment model was able to describe (18)F-FDOPA kinetics in tumors and the cerebellum but not the striatum. A 3-compartment model with corrections for tissue blood volume, metabolites, and partial volume appeared to be superior for describing (18)F-FDOPA kinetics in tumors and the striatum. A significant correlation was found between influx rate constant K and late uptake (standardized uptake value from 65 to 75 min), whereas the correlation of K with early uptake was weak. High-grade tumors had significantly higher transport rate constant k(1), equilibrium distribution volumes, and influx rate constant K than did low-grade tumors (P < 0.01). Tumor uptake showed a maximum at about 15 min, whereas the striatum typically showed a plateau-shaped curve. Patlak graphical analysis did not provide accurate parameter estimates. Logan graphical analysis yielded reliable estimates of the distribution volume and could separate newly diagnosed high-grade tumors from low-grade tumors.A 2-compartment model was able to describe (18)F-FDOPA kinetics in tumors in a first approximation. A 3-compartment model with corrections for metabolites and partial volume could adequately describe (18)F-FDOPA kinetics in tumors, the striatum, and the cerebellum. This model suggests that (18)F-FDOPA was transported but not trapped in tumors, unlike in the striatum. The shape of the uptake curve appeared to be related to tumor grade. After an early maximum, high-grade tumors had a steep descending branch, whereas low-grade tumors had a slowly declining curve, like that for the cerebellum but on a higher scale.