Experimental gastritis in mice enhances anxiety in a gender-related manner. There is a gender-related comorbidity of pain-related and inflammatory bowel diseases with psychiatric diseases. Since the impact of experimental gastrointestinal inflammation on the emotional-affective behavior is little known, we examined whether experimental gastritis modifies anxiety, stress coping and circulating corticosterone in male and female Him:OF1 mice. Gastritis was induced by adding iodoacetamide (0.1%) to the drinking water for at least 7 days. Inflammation was assessed by gastric histology and myeloperoxidase activity, circulating corticosterone determined by enzyme immunoassay, anxiety-related behavior evaluated with the elevated plus maze and stress-induced hyperthermia tests, and depression-like behavior estimated with the tail suspension test. Iodoacetamide-induced gastritis was associated with gastric mucosal surface damage and an increase in gastric myeloperoxidase activity, this increase being significantly larger in female mice than in male mice. The rectal temperature of male mice treated with iodoacetamide was enhanced, whereas that of female mice was diminished. The circulating levels of corticosterone were reduced by 65% in female mice treated with iodoacetamide but did not significantly change in male mice. On the behavioral level, iodoacetamide treatment caused a decrease in nocturnal home-cage activity, drinking and feeding. While depression-related behavior remained unaltered following induction of gastritis, behavioral indices of anxiety were significantly enhanced in female but not male mice. There was no correlation between the estrous cycle and anxiety as well as circulating corticosterone. Radiotracer experiments revealed that iodoacetamide did not readily enter the brain, the blood-brain ratio being 20:1. Collectively, these data show that iodoacetamide treatment causes gastritis in a gender-related manner, its severity being significantly greater in female than in male mice. The induction of gastritis in female mice is associated with a reduction of circulating corticosterone and an enforcement of behavioral indices of anxiety. Gastric inflammation thus has a distinct gender-dependent influence on emotional-affective behavior and its neuroendocrine control.