Gated myocardial perfusion scintigraphy in children with myocarditis: can it be considered as an indicator of clinical outcome? Myocarditis is an inflammation of the heart muscle and represents a challenge for diagnosis and treatment. On account of the lack of sensitivity and specificity of routine cardiac tests, there is a need for accurate diagnostic imaging. The aim of this study is to review the role of gated 99Tc-methoxyisobutylisonitrile myocardial perfusion scintigraphy (G-MPS) in the diagnosis and follow-up of the patients with myocarditis in comparison with gallium scintigraphy.Thirteen patients with a clinical diagnosis of myocarditis were included in the study. All underwent rest G-MPS and the images were then evaluated by quantitative perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography and quantitative gated single photon emission computed tomography software program. Visual evaluation of perfusion was performed as well as analysis of motion with thickening function [expressed as summed rest score, summed motion score, and summed thickening score (STS)] with calculation of ejection fraction (EF) and lung-to-heart (L/H) ratio. Eight patients underwent 67Ga scintigraphy. Clinical, echocardiography, and cardiac enzymes (creatinine kinase-MB, myoglobulin, troponin T, brain natriuretic peptide) data were gathered from the patients' charts. Clinical outcome was grouped according to prognosis. Spearman's correlation (SC) test was used for comparison analysis.Myocardial perfusion defects were observed in eight patients. Perfusion defects in the left ventricle involve a mean of 7.25% (range: 1-11%), whereas wall motion abnormality on G-MPS was more prominent, which showed to be a better marker for myocardial inflammation and necrosis. The 67Ga scintigraphy findings were normal in all, but two. The G-MPS EF (33+/-21%) was slightly lower than the echocardiography EF (40+/-15%), but with close correlation (SC coefficient: 0.635). Comparison of scintigraphic findings with clinical parameters showed that summed motion score with G-MPS EF and STS with L/H ratios were highly correlated (0.932 and 0.622, respectively). The maximum brain natriuretic peptide and L/H ratio with STS were highly correlated with the patients' outcomes (SC coefficient: -0.621, 0.821, and 0.579, respectively), as well.Tc-methoxyisobutylisonitrile G-MPS is therefore helpful in providing additional diagnostic and prognostic information in patients with myocarditis.