Multiple myeloma presenting as an intracranial plasmacytoma: a case report. Multiple myeloma presenting as an intracranial tumor (plasmacytoma) is very rare. An 81-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of gait disturbance. A blood laboratory test revealed a mildly increased lactate dehydrogenase (236 IU/L) and glucose (121 mg/dl). Blood protein fractions were normal. Brain computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging revealed an intracranial mass (5 x 4 x 3 cm) in the brain base next to the clavus, and it was clinically diagnosed as chordoma. An excision of the brain tumor was performed. Imaging modalities including ultrasound, x-ray, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography did not reveal any tumors other than the brain tumor. The tumor was soft, fragile, and bloody. Microscopically, a monotonous proliferation of atypical plasma cells with hyperchromatic nuclei was recognized. Histochemically, the tumor cells were pyroninophilic and the congo-red stain revealed amyloidosis. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were positive for kappa-chain and negative for cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, vimentin, CD45, CD20, CD45RO, lambda-chain, IgM, IgA, IgG, synaptophysin, chromogranin, S100 protein, desmin, alpha-smooth muscle antigen, myoglobin, p53 protein, and glial fibrillary acidic protein. The Ki-67 labeling was 11%. Intracranial plasmacytoma was pathologically diagnosed. The patient was treated by adjuvant chemoradiation, and entered into the complete remission stage. However, multiple metastases emerged in the vertebral bones and ribs six months after the remission. A diagnosis of multiple myeloma was made. The urine revealed Bence-Jones protein of monoclonal IgG kappa-chain type, but blood M protein was not recognized. The patient's condition gradually deteriorated. The patient died of respiratory failure due to bronchopneumonia 18 months after the admission. The present case indicates that multiple myeloma may manifest as an intracranial brain tumor (plasmacytoma).