The significance of glucose turnover in the brain in the pathogenetic mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease. This paper presents a comprehensive survey of the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Two mechanisms are of etiological importance in the development of a degenerative dementing brain disease: 1. Lesions in the mitochondrial genome that are caused by free radicals. Primary degenerative AD is characterized by a tendency to acquire random lesions within mitochondrial DNA that are produced by free radicals. The consequence of these lesions is a decrease in glucose turnover and a decline in oxidative phosphorylation. Point mutations on chromosome 21 are hypothesized to increase the susceptibility of mitochondrial DNA to lesions created by free radicals. 2. Ischemic brain lesions as well as traumatic brain damage cause an increase in the release of excitotoxic amino acids (glutamate, aspartate, etc.). These neurotransmitters increase CA(+2) influx into the nerve cell and significantly lower energy production. From a pathogenetic point of view, AD is characterized by a decrease in glucose turnover in the brain. The progression of AD can be monitored by F18- deoxyglucose PET studies. This technique also allows the recognition of patients who are prone to develop AD. The actual development of a cognitive deficit is a threshold phenomenon that occurs if glucose turnover in the hippocampus or temporoparietal cortex drops below a critical level of about 40% of the level of age-matched controls. The low glucose turnover in AD causes a cholinergic deficit by decreasing the synthesis of AcCoA, which is used by choline acetyltransferase in the acetylation of choline to acetylcholine. The decrease in glucose turnover also reduces oxidative phosphorylation. The resulting decrease in ATP triggers the hyperphosphorylation of tau protein by activating protein kinase 40erk. The hyperphosphorylation leads to the development of paired helical filaments. The generation of beta amyloid and the loss of neuronal synapses are also caused by a decrease in oxidative phosphorylation, since beta amyloid precursor proteins are not inserted into the membranes of nerve cells in the absence of a sufficient amount of ATP. This results in the generation of intact beta amyloid molecules and leads to amyloidosis in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease.