Biliary tree and cholecyst: post surgery imaging. Recently, with improvements in surgical techniques there has been a substantial reduction in the incidence of biliary complications of hepatobiliary surgery. Nevertheless, bile duct injuries and other post-cholecystectomy complications are a serious problem and a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Early complications may include bile duct injury caused by mistakenly placed clips, erroneous cutting of bile ducts based on misinterpretation of biliary anatomy, periductal bile leakage that causes edema, fibrosis and secondary stricturing, and ischemia due to injury to the right hepatic artery. Bile duct strictures are the most common of the late complications and can develop a few months or many years after surgery. Early detection and accurate diagnosis have a fundamental importance for the successful treatment of these complications. Therefore, early and meaningful application of the imaging methods immediately after detection of the first symptoms is essential. Peroperative ultrasound and direct iodine contrast application into the biliary tree (operative cholangiography) are highly important for immediate visualization of the complications during surgery. Ultrasound can be used to aid in identification of ductal structures and the cholangiogram should be obtained to document the anatomy. Plain abdominal film could be made in the patients in poor clinical conditions after biliary surgery. Oral cholecystography has largely been replaced by ultrasonography (US) for evaluation of cholelithiasis and complications like post-cholecystectomy fluid collections. The same methodology replaced the conventional intravenous cholangiography. Nowadays computed tomography (CT), endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), magnetic resonance cholangiography (MRCP) and ultrasound (US) have essential roles as primary imaging modalities after biliary tree and gallbladder surgery in the evaluation of associated complications and residual biliary stones. We review the role of the imaging in complications after biliary tree and gallbladder surgery.