Liver resection for hepatocellular carcinoma in cirrhotic patients. The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in cirrhotic patients is increasing. Despite advances in imaging and laboratory screening which allow earlier diagnosis, the surgeon is all too often confronted with an HCC of advanced stage or arising in the setting of severe cirrhosis. Hepatic resection is still considered the treatment of choice for hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with liver cirrhosis. From 1998 to 2005, 6 patients (5 males, 1 female, age 52-70 years, mean age 64.1 years) with HCC associated severe, but well compensated liver cirrhosis (Child A-- 4 patients, Child B--2 patients) underwent 9 hepatic resection in our department. Mean tumor size was 56 mm (range 23-86 mm). Two of these lesions were in the left liver and four in the right lobe. Doppler ultrasonography was performed in all cases and CT in 3 cases to confirm the extension of the lesions. Laparoscopy was performed in 3 patients under CO2 pneumoperitoneum. The Pringle maneuver was not used. The transection of the liver parenchyma was obtained by the use of Ligasure and harmonic scalpel. Nine hepatic resections were performed: 7 segmentectomy and 2 non-anatomical resections. The resection margin was 1 cm. The mean operative time was 90 minutes (range 60-120). Mean blood loss was 250 ml and 2 patients required blood transfusion. One patient died on the tenth postoperative day from a severe respiratory distress syndrome and hepatic failure. Major morbidities occurred in three patients who developed moderate postoperative ascites, which resolved successfully with conservative treatment in two patients. Limited liver resection in cirrhotic patients with HCC is feasible with a low complication rate when careful selection criteria are followed (tumor size smaller than 8 cm, Child-Pugh A class and the good general conditions of the patients). Other medical and interventional treatments (chemoembolization, chemotherapy) can only slow the progress of HCC.