The first case of ureteral duplication in a combined liver-kidney transplantation. Kidney transplantation with ureteral duplication may represent a doubled risk factor in terms of ureteral stenosis or necrosis with urinary leakage usually from the site of ureteroneocystostomy. The incidence of complete duplication is very low at 0.19%. We report a kidney with ureteral duplication in the specific setting of multiorgan transplantation since it could be considered an adjunctive risk factor for urological complications.The recipient was a 67-year old man, suffering from terminal renal insufficiency. He was also affected by HCV-related cirrhosis. The patient had been waiting for the combined transplantation for 27 months and in the last two months his hepatic function dramatically worsened. The donor was a 53-year old man who died of non-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage. Good HLA compatibility was observed between donor and recipient. During harvest both kidneys presented a complete ureteral duplication. So the ureters were freed together with a wide cuff of periureteral tissue and dissected distally. No vascular abnormalities were noted during the removal of either kidney. The grafts were flushed with University of Wisconsin solution and stored in the same solution.The liver was reperfused after 9 hours of cold ischemia. Subsequently the kidney was vascularized after 15 hours of cold ischemia. Urine production occurred immediately after revascularization. Two separated ureteroneocystostomies with a single antireflux technique were performed. Cyclosporine and steroids were given. Post-operative course was uneventful and liver and kidney function were normal. The 7-day cystography was normal. The 6, 12, 24 month ultrasonographies showed no signs of hydronephrosis or hydroureter. After 28 months renal cancer was diagnosed and the patient underwent a right nephrectomy. The liver-kidney recipient had excellent hepatic and renal function for 84.7 months. He died of malignancy from de novo tumor.On the basis of this experience, a kidney with an ureteral duplication, while rare, can be satisfactorily used also in combined liver-kidney transplantation.