Cardiac response to pressure overload in 129S1/SvImJ and C57BL/6J mice: temporal- and background-dependent development of concentric left ventricular hypertrophy. Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), a risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, is commonly caused by essential hypertension. Three geometric patterns of LVH can be induced by hypertension: concentric remodeling, concentric hypertrophy, and eccentric hypertrophy. Clinical studies suggest that different underlying etiologies, genetic modifiers, and risk of mortality are associated with LVH geometric patterns. Since pressure overload-induced LVH can be modeled experimentally using transverse aortic constriction (TAC) and since C57BL/6J (B6) and 129S1/SvImJ (129S1) strains, which have different baseline cardiovascular phenotypes, are commonly used, we conducted serial echocardiographic studies to assess cardiac function up to 8 wk of post-TAC in male B6, 129S1, and B6129F1 (F1) mice. B6 mice had an earlier onset and more pronounced impairment in contractile function, with corresponding left and right ventricular dilatation, fibrosis, change in expression of hypertrophy marker, and increased liver weights at 5 wk of post-TAC. These observations suggest that B6 mice had eccentric hypertrophy with systolic dysfunction and right-sided heart failure. In contrast, we found that 129S1 and F1 mice delayed transition to decompensated heart failure, with 129S1 mice exhibiting preserved systolic function until 8 wk of post-TAC and relatively mild alterations in histology and markers of hypertrophy at 5 wk post-TAC. Consistent with concentric hypertrophy, our results show that these strains manifest different cardiac responses to pressure overload in a time-dependent manner and that genetic susceptibility to initial concentric hypertrophy is dominant to eccentric hypertrophy. These results also imply that genetic background differences can complicate interpretation of TAC studies when using mixed genetic backgrounds.