The laparoscopic approach for radiofrequency ablation of hepatocellular carcinoma--indication, technique and results. The therapeutic regimen for patients suffering of HCC in liver cirrhosis must pay attention to the underlying liver disease. Surgical resection is often limited by liver function and transplantation, as an optimal therapy for many early diagnosed HCC, by the availability of organs. Due to three prospective, randomized trials radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is the standard method of local ablation. RFA compared with resection for HCC in liver cirrhosis yields similar results concerning overall survival but a lower rate of complications. The laparoscopic approach may be advantageous concerning the major drawback of RFA which is still the rate of local failure as shown by a meta-analysis of local recurrences.Indication for RFA was HCC in liver cirrhosis either as a definite therapy or as a bridging procedure for transplantation if the expected waiting time exceeded 6 months. Laparoscopic ultrasound, standardized algorithm of laparoscopic RFA procedure, track ablation and a Trucut biopsy were performed. The postoperative follow-up was done according to institutional standards. Patient data and parameters of laparoscopic RFA were prospectively documented, analyzed and compared with the results of previously published series found in a Medline search.34 patients were treated by laparoscopic RFA. The average time of follow-up was 36.9 ± 28.3 months. There was no procedure-related mortality or surgical complications. An upstaging of the tumor stage by laparoscopic ultrasound was achieved in 32 % of the patients. The overall survival of these patients was 44.7 ± 6.9 months. The intrahepatic recurrence rate was 61.8 % based on the number of patients treated. The results have been analyzed and compared with six independent papers identified in a Medline search that report on the treatment of patients with HCC in a liver cirrhosis by laparoscopic RFA with a mean follow-up of 12 or more months.Laparoscopic RFA is a feasible and reliable therapy for unresectable HCCs in patients with cirrhosis. The laparoscopic RFA combines the advantage of a minimally invasive procedure concerning liver dysfunction with the ability of an accurate intraoperative staging by laparoscopic ultrasound.