Total laparoscopic limited anatomical resection for centrally located hepatocellular carcinoma in cirrhotic liver. Limited anatomical liver resection for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is complicated in cirrhotic patients with centrally located HCC and limited liver reserve. We present a case of total laparoscopic left medial and right ventroanterior sectionectomy performed using the intrahepatic Glissonian approach in a cirrhotic liver for curative resection of HCC.The patient was a 69-year-old man with a 6.5-cm-diameter HCC located at segments 4, 5, and 8 and which was compressing the middle hepatic vein (MHV). Child-Pugh class A liver cirrhosis was noted, and the 15-min retention rate for indocyanine green was 14 %. Preoperative surgical planning suggested the feasibility of limited anatomical subsegmental resection. The patient was placed in the supine position and 5 trocars were used for the procedure. The operation began with cholecystectomy, division of liver ligaments, and exposure of the right hepatic vein root and the umbilical Glissonian pedicles to the left medial segment. Parenchymal transection was performed using a laparoscopic harmonic scalpel and Cavitron Ultrasonic Surgical Aspirator until the MHV was reached. After exposing the ventral branches of the right anterior Glissonian pedicle and dividing them, resection was continued along the demarcation line. Fissure veins draining to the MHV root were identified and divided. The MHV root was closed using an automatic stapler.The operation time was 565 min and estimated blood loss was 665 ml blood transfusion was not required. Pathological examination confirmed a moderately differentiated HCC with all resected margins free of malignancy. Postoperative recovery was uneventful and the patient was discharged on the postoperative day 7. There was no tumor recurrence 18 months after the operation.Total laparoscopic left medial and right ventroanterior sectionectomy via the intrahepatic Glissonian approach is feasible for HCC in a cirrhotic liver with limited liver reserve. Preoperative planning is essential in order to compute successful hepatic function. Standardization of surgical techniques may aid in safely performing this procedure.