Relationship between the mismatch of 123I-BMIPP and 201Tl myocardial single-photon emission computed tomography and autonomic nervous system activity in patients with acute myocardial infarction. The purpose of this study was to elucidate the relationship between the mismatch of thallium-201(Tl) and iodine-123-beta-methyl-iodophenyl-pentadecanoic acid (BMIPP) myocardial single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and autonomic nervous system activity in myocardial infarction (MI) patients. The subjects were 40 patients (34 males, 6 females) who underwent examinations by 123I-BMIPP and 201Tl myocardial SPECT imaging and 24-hour Holter monitoring within a 3-day period 3 weeks after the onset of their first MI. R-R intervals were analyzed every hour over a period of 24 hours by fast Fourier transformation (FFT). High frequency (HF) and low frequency (LF) were defined as markers of cardiac vagal activity in the former and the LF/HF ratio as sympathetic activity. Greater or more extensive decreases in the BMIPP image than that in the Tl image were defined as a positive mismatch. Patients were divided into positive and negative mismatch groups of 20 patients each. There were no significant differences between the 2 groups in age, sex, site of infarction, max CK (creatine kinase), max CK-MB, or left ventricular ejection fraction. The incidences of clinical signs suggesting residual myocardial ischemia were significantly greater in the positive than in the negative mismatch group (P < 0.05). The mean values for HF over the entire 24-hour period and over the 5-hour nocturnal period (0-5 AM) in the positive mismatch group were both significantly lower than those in the negative mismatch group (P < 0.001 in both groups). The 24-hour mean HF and mean nighttime HF in patients with signs of residual ischemia were both significantly lower than in those without signs of residual ischemia in the positive mismatch group (P < 0.05 in both groups). The mean LF/HF ratio for both the entire 24-hour and the nocturnal period in the positive mismatch group were significantly higher than those in the negative mismatch group (P < 0.001, P < 0.05, respectively). The daily profile of hourly HF measurements was significantly lower in the positive mismatch group than in the negative mismatch group (P < 0.02). The mean values of HF for 24-hour and 5-hour periods were significantly lower in patients with signs of residual ischemia in the positive mismatch group than in those with signs of residual ischemia in the negative mismatch group (P < 0.01, P < 0.02, respectively). There were no significant differences between the patients with signs of residual ischemia in the negative mismatch group and those without signs of residual ischemia in the positive and negative mismatch group with regard to the mean values of HF and the LF/HF ratio measured every hour for 24 hours and 5 hours. It is concluded from the present study that the findings of a mismatch on 123I-BMIPP and 201Tl myocardial SPECT 3 weeks after a first acute myocardial infarction with uncomplicated moderate or severe heart failure and decreased heart rate variability are related to residual myocardial ischemia. A combined assessment of heart rate variability in 24-hour Holter ECG monitoring and perfusion-metabolism mismatch in 123I-BMIPP and 201Tl myocardial SPECT is useful for determining residual myocardial ischemia in the follow-up of those with acute myocardial infarction.