Nickel chloride/chlorides of divalent metal interactions in nickel-sensitive subjects. To verify if the counter-ion Cl- permits the same interactions between nickel and divalent metals with physicochemical similarities as the counter-ion SO4- does, 50 sensitive subjects to nickel sulfate 5% pet. who previously gave positive patch test reactions either to 8 mu 1 of aq. nickel sulfate 0.1 M or to 8 mu 1 of aq. nickel chloride 0.1 M, or to both, were patch retested simultaneously to 8 mu 1 of, respectively, aq. nickel sulfate 0.1 M and aq. nickel chloride 0.1 M, and to 8 mu 1 of aq. mixed solutions containing, respectively, nickel chloride 0.1 M+magnesium chloride 0.3 M, nickel chloride 0.1 M+zinc chloride 0.3 M, nickel chloride 0.1 M+zinc chloride 0.5 M, nickel chloride 0.1 M+manganese chloride 0.3 M, and nickel chloride 0.1 M+manganese chloride O.5 M. Whilst 4 subjects gave a positive patch test response to only nickel sulphate, 8 gave a positive response to nickel chloride alone and the remaining 38 gave a concomitant positive response to both. In all subjects who gave positive responses to nickel chloride, the chlorides of divalent metals were not able to inhibit or reduce the positive reaction. 25 healthy subjects patch tested to both single salts and mixed solutions, and all gave negative responses. 9 of the 50 subjects, 4 who previously gave positive reactions to only nickel chloride 0.1 M, and 5 with concomitant reactions of equal intensity to both nickel chloride and nickel sulfate 0.1 M, were patch retested simultaneously to 8 mu 1 of, respectively, aq. nickel sulfate 0.1 M, aq. nickel chloride 0.1 M and aq. mixed solutions containing nickel sulfate (0.1 M) mixed with sulfates (0.3 M) and nickel chloride (0.1 M) mixed with chlorides of Mg, Zn, Mn (0.3 M). Whilst the mixed sulfate solutions were able to reduce nickel sulfate, 0.1 M patch test positive reactions, those containing chlorides, at all concentrations tested, did not inhibit the nickel chloride reactions in any of the subjects. The results of the tests to chlorides, compared to those reached on testing to sulfates of the same metals, lead us to hypothesize that the anion probably affects the uptake and local tissue distribution of the metal, modulating in this way, together with the individual cutaneous ligands, its effects.