Networks of domain-specific and general regions involved in episodic memory for spatial location and object identity. Positron emission tomography (PET) was used to investigate human episodic memory for spatial location and object identity. We measured regional cerebral bloodflow (rCBF) while subjects engaged in perceptual matching of the location or the identity of line drawings of objects. Perceptual matching also involved incidental encoding of the presented information. Subsequently, rCBF was measured when subjects retrieved the location or the identity of these objects from memory. Using the multivariate partial least squares image analysis, we identified three patterns of activity across the brain that allowed us to distinguish structures that are differentially involved in processing spatial location and object identity from structures that are differentially involved in encoding and retrieval but operate across both domains. Domain-specificity was evident by increased rCBF during the processing of spatial location in the right middle occipital gyrus, supramarginal gyrus, and superior temporal sulcus, and by increased rCBF during the processing of object identity in portions of bilateral lingual and fusiform gyri. There was a nearly complete overlap between domain-specific dorsal and ventral extrastriate cortex activations during perceptual matching and memory retrieval. Evidence of domain-specificity was also found in the prefrontal cortex and the left hippocampus, but the effect interacted with encoding and retrieval. Domain-general structures included bilateral superior temporal cortex regions, which were preferentially activated during encoding, and portions of bilateral middle and inferior frontal gyri, which were preferentially activated during retrieval. Together, our data suggest that encoding and retrieval in episodic memory depend on the interplay between domain-specific structures, most of which are involved in memory as well as perception, and domain-general structures, some of which operate more at encoding and others more at retrieval.