Changes of blood coagulative and fibrinolytic system and function of pulmonary vascular endothelium after therapy in patients with acute pulmonary thromboembolism. To study the changes of blood coagulative and fibrinolytic system and the function of pulmonary vascular endothelium in the course of acute pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE) and after anticoagulant or thrombolytic treatment.Twenty patients with acute non-massive PTE, 10 males and 10 females, aged (57 +/- 11) underwent anticoagulant treatment and 17 sex-, and age-matched acute massive PTE patients underwent thrombolytic treatment. The plasma level of D-dimer (D-D), thrombomodulin (TM), protein C (PC), protein S (PS), tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA), plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), and antithrombin-III (AT-III) activity were measured by ELISA before and after normal subjects severed as control group were included in the study. The plasma level of D-D, PS, PC, TM, t-PA and PAI-1 were measured by a method of ELISA before the treatment and six days after the anticoagulant treatment or 24 hours after the thrombolytic treatment. AT-III activity was measured by chromo-substrate method at the same time points. Forty sex- and age-matched healthy persons were used as controls.The plasma levels of D-D, t-PA, PS, and TM level of the anticoagulant group were all significantly higher and the AT-III activity of the 2 treatment groups was significantly lower than those of the controls before treatment (all P < 0.05) the plasma levels of D-D, t-PA, PAI-1, PS, and TM of the thrombolytic group were ala significantly higher and the AT-III activity was significantly lower than those of the control group before the treatment (all P < 0.05). After anticoagulant therapy, the plasma levels of D-D, t-PA, PS, and PC were significantly lower than those before treatment (all P < 0.05), however, the plasma levels of PAI-1, TM, and AT-III activity after treatment did not differ significantly from those before treatment. The plasma levels of D-D, t-PA, PS, PC, and TM after treatment of the thrombolytic group were all significantly lower than those before treatment (all P < 0.05), however, the plasma levels of PAI-1, TM, and AT-III activity after treatment did not differ significantly from those before treatment.Apparent imbalance in the blood coagulative and fibrinolytic system and pulmonary vascular endothelium damage occur in the patients with acute PTE. Combination tests of plasma D-D, AT-III, PS, PC, TM, t-PA and PAI-1 can give a more comprehensive explanation of the imbalance in the blood coagulative and fibrolytic system. Anticoagulant treatment and thrombolytic treatment play important roles in the regulation of the imbalance of coagulative and fibrinolytic system and protection of the function of pulmonary vascular endothelium of PTE patients.