Coagulation, fibrinolysis and cytokine responses to intramedullary nailing of the femur: an experimental study in pigs comparing traditional reaming and reaming with a one-step reamer-irrigator-aspirator system. Operations in trauma patients represent a second insult and the extent of the surgical procedures influences the magnitude of the inflammatory response. Our hypothesis was that a reamer-irrigator-aspirator (RIA) system would cause a lesser inflammatory response than traditional reaming (TR).Coagulation, fibrinolysis and cytokine responses were studied in Norwegian landrace pigs during and after intramedullary nailing (IMN) with two different reaming systems using ELISA and chromogenic peptide substrate assays. The TR (n=8) and the RIA (n=7) reaming systems were compared to a control group (n=7). The animals were followed for 72 h. Arterial, mixed venous and femoral vein blood were withdrawn simultaneously peroperatively and until 2 h after the nail was inserted for demonstration of local, pulmonary and systemic activation of the cascade systems. At 6 h, 24 h, 48 h and 72 h postoperatively arterial blood samples were withdrawn.Significantly procedure-related increased levels were found for thrombin-antithrombin (TAT) and tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) in the TR group and TAT in the RIA group. The local and the pulmonary activation of coagulation and fibrinolysis were more pronounced in the TR than in the RIA group, the difference reached significance for plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) (arterial blood). The cytokine response, mainly represented by IL-6 increase, was more pronounced in the TR than the RIA group, and was significant for IL-6 in femoral vein blood. The arterial levels of IL-6 exceeded the mixed venous levels indicating an additional pulmonary activation of IL-6. Two animals in the TR group, who died of pulmonary embolism (PE) prior to planned study end point, had a more pronounced response compared to the rest of the TR group.A procedure-related coagulation and fibrinolytic response was demonstrated in both reaming groups, with more pronounced response in the TR than in the RIA group. Elevated levels of cytokines were demonstrated related to reaming and nailing, with significantly higher IL-6 levels in the TR than in the RIA group.