Diagnosis and treatment of acute pulmonary embolism in 2010. Diagnostic approaches in acute pulmonary embolism include evaluation of clinical likelihood, D-dimers, echocardiography and spiral CT angiography and pulmonary scintigraphy. Determination of D-dimers is only meaningful in patients with low or intermediate clinical likelihood. It is safe not to initiate anticoagulation treatment (or to discontinue such treatment) in patients with low clinical likelihood of acute pulmonary embolism and negative D-dimer test (only if methods with 99-100% sensitivity are used). Duplex sonography and pulmonary scintigraphy are only necessary at the centres with a first generation spiral CT and not those with multidetector devices. Investigations in normotensive patients should include echocardiography that should also include assessment of the right ventricular function using echocardiography and determination of biomarkers of pulmonary embolism. Right ventricular dysfunction together with elevated troponins identifies a normotensive group at an increases risk. Highly sensitive troponin T (hsTnT) appears to be particularly valuable. Echocardiography reading might the decisive factor for treatment initiation in patients with massive acute pulmonary embolism. Negative or unclear echocardiography finding warrants spiral CT angiography (CTA). Ventilation/perfusion scan or pulmonary arteriography are recommendable in patients with unclear CTA finding and patients with high clinical likelihood of pulmonary embolism and negative CTA finding. A combination of CTA and CTV also appears useful as it increases the overall sensitivity of the investigation and enables imaging of pelvic veins. Thrombolytic treatment is indicated in haemodynamically unstable patients, patients with a high risk of a massive pulmonary embolism associated with cardiogenic shock or hypotension (systolic pressure below 90 mmHg or a decrease in systolic pressure by > 40 mmHg) or symptoms of acute right-sided heart failure. Thrombolytic treatment is also indicated in pulmonary embolism not receding following heparin treatment, in recurring or expanding pulmonary embolism, in the presence of thrombi in the right heart and in patients with right-to-left shunting through patent foramen ovale. This treatment should also be considered in patients with submassive pulmonary embolism associated with a dysfunction of the right ventricle and increased troponins, and particularly in patients lacking even a relative contraindication of thrombolytic treatment. A thrombolytic of choice is alteplase. Embolectomy or catheterization should be used if thrombolytic treatment is contraindicated or ineffective. Long-term monitoring of massive and submassive acute pulmonary embolism is highly recommended. Low molecular weight heparins or unfractioned heparin or fondaparinux are used in haemodynamically stable patients.