Crude phenolic extracts from extra virgin olive oil circumvent de novo breast cancer resistance to HER1/HER2-targeting drugs by inducing GADD45-sensed cellular stress, G2/M arrest and hyperacetylation of Histone H3. Characterization of the molecular function of complex phenols naturally present in extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) against the HER2-gene amplified JIMT-1 cell line, a unique breast cancer model that inherently exhibits cross-resistance to multiple HER1/2-targeted drugs including trastuzumab, gefitinib, erlotinib and lapatinib, may underscore innovative cancer molecules with novel therapeutic targets because they should efficiently circumvent de novo resistance to HER1/2 inhibitors in order to elicit tumoricidal effects. We identified pivotal signaling pathways associated with the efficacy of crude phenolic extracts (PEs) obtained from 14 monovarietals of Spanish EVOOs. i) MTT-based cell viability and HPLC coupled to time-of-flight (TOF) mass spectrometry assays revealed that anti-cancer activity of EVOO PEs positively correlated with the phenolic index (i.e., total content of phenolics) and with a higher presence of the complex polyphenols secoiridoids instead of lignans. ii) Genome-wide analyses using 44 K Agilent's whole human arrays followed by Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA)-based screening of the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway database revealed a differential modulation of the JIMT-1 transcriptome at the level of the cell cycle and p53 pathways. EVOO PEs differentially impacted the expression status of stress-sensing, G2-M check-point-related GADD45 genes and of p53-related CDKN1A, CDKN1C and PMAIP-1 genes. iii) Cell cycle and fluorescence microscopy analyses confirmed that secoiridoid-rich EVOO PE inhibited mitosis to promote G2-M cell cycle arrest. This was accompanied with the appearance of diffuse, even DNA staining with γH2AX and pan-nuclear hyperacetylation of Histone H3 at Lysine 18. iv) Semi-quantitative Signaling Node Multi-Target ELISAs determined that secoiridoid-rich EVOO PE drastically activated the mitogen-activated protein kinases MEK1 and p38 MAPK, a GADD45-related kinase involved in Histone H3 acetylation. Secoiridoids, a family of complex polyphenols characteristic of Oleaceae plants, appear to permit histones to remain in hyperacetylated states and through the resulting alterations in gene regulation to reduce mitotic viability and metabolic competence of breast cancer cells inherently refractory to HER-targeting therapies ab initio. Oleaceae secoiridoids could provide a valuable phytochemical platform for the design of more pharmacologically active second-generation phytopharmaceutical anti-breast cancer molecules with a unique mode of action.