Development of the novel PEG-PE-based polymer for the reversible attachment of specific ligands to liposomes: synthesis and in vitro characterization. Surface grafting of liposomes with the wide variety of ligands including antibodies and other proteins is a promising approach for targeted delivery of therapeutics. In this paper, we describe a simple method of synthesizing a hydrazine-functionalized poly(ethylene glycol)-phosphatidylethanolamine (PEG-PE)-based amphiphilic polymer which can conjugate a variety of ligands via a reversible, pH-cleavable bond. In this method, the targeting ligand is attached to the distal end of the PEG chain, which facilitates its easy access to the targeted site of interaction. The reversible attachment of targeting ligands is useful especially in multifunctional liposomal systems, whereafter successfully performing the function of targeting to the specific site, the bulky ligands, such as proteins or antibodies, are cleaved off in response to an environmental stimulus to expose some other functionalities such as ligands for intracellular penetration or organelle-specific targeting. To investigate the applicability of the protocol, the model ligands monoclonal antinucleosome antibody 2C5 and antimyosin antibody 2G4, and glycoproteins concanavalin A (Con-A) and avidin were conjugated to the synthesized polymer and incorporated into liposomes. In vitro assays including biochemical, enzyme-linked immunosorbent, fluorescence microscopy, and flow cytometry were used to confirm three key characteristics of the modified and/or liposome-attached proteins: successful conjugation of the targeting ligands to the polymer, preservation of specific activity of the ligands after the conjugation and liposome attachment, and the facile pH-sensitive ligand detachment. Monoclonal antibody 2C5 and 2G4, immobilized on the liposome surface, retained their binding affinity to corresponding antigens as confirmed by ELISA. The Con A-bearing liposomes showed significantly higher agglutination in the presence of its substrate mannan compared to plain liposomes (PL) and avidin-functionalized liposomes bound specifically with biotin-agarose. The study on the pH-dependence showed that almost 80% of the hydrazone bond was cleaved after rather brief preincubation of the immunoliposomes at pH 5 for 0.5 to 1 h. Fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry analysis of cancer cells (HeLa and MCF-7) treated with cancer cell-specific targeting ligand mAb 2C5-bearing liposomes showed enhanced cellular binding. Studies at low pH clearly confirmed the easy cleavability of the targeting ligand from the liposomes resulting in significantly less or virtually no cellular association.