Thromboembolic diseases: biochemical mechanisms and new possibilities of biological diagnosis. The diagnosis of thromboembolic diseases is still difficult to establish before the occurrence of the pathological event, although it is now known that they are the result of a progressive alteration of the cardiovascular system. Introduction of new diagnostic tools for the evaluation of the thromboresistance capacity of the body or for the measurement of molecular markers allows the testing of the body defenses against thrombosis which is becoming a routine clinical diagnosis. Antithrombin III (AT III), protein C, protein S, and parameters of fibrinolysis have been recognized to be very important anticoagulant proteins and regulators of thrombin formation and thrombus extension. Furthermore, a normal factor V is necessary for the normal function of the protein C pathway. The presence of a factor V mutation leads to the activated protein C resistance syndrome. However, the major incidence of thrombotic events concerns the overall population. It has been epidemiologically related to the existence of risk factors producing blood activation, which progressively saturates the body's thromboresistance. This period is clinically silent for a long time. The new molecular markers recently introduced can show the existence of a preclinical state of blood activation at the plasma level (fibrinopeptide A, thrombin-antithrombin complexes, modified antithrombin III, fragments 1 + 2 of prothrombin, D-dimer) or at the platelet level (B-thromboglobulin, platelet factor 4, and thrombospondin), and promising developments concern the endothelial level (soluble thrombomodulin). The most universally used blood activation test is the D-dimer assay. This analyte has become very popular in past years for its high sensitivity, its long half-life, and its easy detection directly on citrated plasma. Its negative predictive value (in deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism) as well as its use for monitoring of thrombotic risk in the post-operative period have been well documented clinically. New investigations are initiated to find analytes reflecting endothelial damage, an early platelet activation, or the involvement of blood cells (mainly monocytes and neutrophils) in abnormal processes. It also becomes possible to evaluate directly pathological causes inducing blood activation, such as the presence of antiphospholipid antibodies or other autoimmune antibodies.