Effects of inhibitors of the activity of poly (ADP-ribose) synthetase on the organ injury and dysfunction caused by haemorrhagic shock. 1 Poly (ADP-ribose) synthetase (PARS) is a nuclear enzyme activated by strand breaks in DNA, which are caused by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Here we investigate the effects of the PARS inhibitors 3-aminobenzamide (3-AB), nicotinamide and 1,5-dihydroxyisoquinoline (ISO) on the circulatory failure and the organ injury/dysfunction caused by haemorrhage and resuscitation in the anaesthetized rat. 2 Haemorrhage (sufficient to lower mean arterial blood pressure to 50 mmHg for 90 min) and subsequent resuscitation with shed blood resulted (within 4 h after resuscitation) in a delayed fall in blood pressure to 66+/-4 mmHg (control, n=13). This circulatory failure was not affected by administration (5 min prior to resuscitation) of 3-AB (10 mg kg-1 i.v., n=7), nicotinamide (10 mg kg-1 i.v., n=6) or ISO (3 mg kg-1 i.v., n=6). 3 Haemorrhage and resuscitation also resulted in rises in the serum levels of urea and creatinine. This renal dysfunction was attenuated by 3-AB and nicotinamide, but not by nicotinic acid (n=7), an inactive analogue of nicotinamide. Although ISO (n=6) also attenuated the renal dysfunction caused by haemorrhage and resuscitation, its vehicle (10% DMSO, n=4) had the same effect. 4 Haemorrhagic shock resulted in enhanced serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and lipase, indicating the development of hepatocellular and pancreatic injury, respectively. Similarly, haemorrhagic shock also resulted in an increase in the serum levels of creatine kinase (CK) indicating the development of neuromuscular injury. This was attenuated by 3-AB and nicotinamide, but not by nicotinic acid. Although ISO also attenuated the liver, pancreatic and neuromuscular injury caused by haemorrhagic shock, its vehicle had the same effect. 5 Thus, activation of PARS contributes to the organ injury and dysfunction caused by haemorrhage and resuscitation in the rat.