Effect of sensory nerves and CGRP on the development of caerulein-induced pancreatitis and pancreatic recovery. The function of primary sensory neurons is to receive and transmit information from external environment and these neurons are able to release neuromediators from the activated peripheral endings. The aim of this study was to determine the influence of sensory nerves and administration of their mediator--calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) on the course of acute pancreatitis (AP). Ablation of sensory nerves was performed by neurotoxic dose of capsaicin (100 mg/kg). Single or repeated episodes of AP were induced by caerulein infusion (10 microg/kg/h for 5 h). Five repeated AP were performed once a week. Capsaicin at the dose which stimulates sensory nerves (0.5 mg/kg/dose) or CGRP (10 microg/kg/dose) was administrated before and during or after single induction of AP, as well as, after each induction of repeated AP. Rats were killed at the time 0, 3 or 9 h after single induction of AP or two weeks after last induction of repeated AP. Ablation of sensory nerves aggravated pancreatic damage in caerulein-induced AP. Treatment with stimulatory doses of capsaicin or CGRP before and during single induction of AP attenuated the pancreatic damage in morphological examination. This effect was also manifested by partial reversion of AP evoked drop in DNA synthesis and pancreatic blood flow (PBF). Administration of CGRP after single AP induction aggravated histologically manifested pancreatic damage. The further decrease in PBF and DNA synthesis was also observed. Animals with five episodes of AP showed almost full pancreatic recovery two weeks after last induction of AP concerning all parameters tested. In stimulatory doses of capsaicin treated rats, we observed the decrease in pancreatic amylase and fecal chymotrypsin activity, as well as, the drop in DNA synthesis. Similar but less pronounced effects were observed after treatment with CGRP. We conclude that effect of sensory nerves and CGRP on AP is two-phase and time dependent. Stimulation of sensory nerves or the administration of CGRP during development of AP exhibits protective effects against pancreatic damage induced by caerulein overstimulation. After induction of AP, persistent activity of sensory nerves and presence of CGRP aggravate pancreatic damage and lead to functional insufficiency typical for chronic pancreatitis.