Accuracy of diagnostic laparoscopy for early diagnosis of abdominal complications after cardiac surgery. In the early postoperative period after major cardiac surgery using extracorporal circulation, abdominal complications can have serious consequences with a mortality rate of up to 70%. Early diagnosis and the timely institution of therapy are the most important factors to improve the outcome however, clinical evaluation of the abdomen is difficult in these patients. Diagnostic laparoscopy is a minimally invasive procedure with low procedure-associated morbidity, even in critically ill patients. The aims of our study were to investigate the safety of laparoscopy in critically ill patients suspected to have intraabdominal pathology following cardiac surgery and to evaluate the accuracy of diagnostic laparoscopy compared to laparotomy in this setting.A total of 17 patients were included (13 male, four female, age 52-80 years) in the early (3-30 days) postoperative period after cardiac surgery using extracorporal circulation (10 ACVB, four valve replacement, one aorto-coronary-venous-bypass (ACVB)+ valve replacement, two cardiac transplantation). Clinical and laboratory findings included distended abdomen (17 of 17), elevated white blood cells (12 of 17), elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) (13 of 17), and elevated lactate levels (11 of 17). The decision to perform laparotomy was taken in all patients on the basis of their clinical condition. Diagnostic laparoscopy was always performed immediately before laparotomy. The laparoscopic findings were then compared to the laparotomy findings.In one patient, laparoscopy showed no abnormal findings, this was confirmed on laparotomy. Five patients were found to have massive distension of the large bowel without ischemia on both laparoscopy and laparotomy. Colonic ischemia of the right hemicolon was found laparoscopically in six patients, which was confirmed in all cases by open resection and histological workup. Three patients suffered from acute cholecystitis, which was correctly diagnosed by laparoscopy in all cases. In one patient, laparoscopy revealed fibrinous peritonitis without other findings. Open exploration failed to identify the cause of the peritonitis in this patient. Laparoscopy showed no pathological findings in one patient, but laparotomy then revealed necrotizing pancreatitis confined to the lesser sac. There was one laparoscopy-associated intraoperative complication (6%) in this series.Diagnostic laparoscopy is a minimally invasive procedure that can be performed at low intraoperative risk in critically ill patients and has a high sensitivity (94%) for the correct diagnosis of intraabdominal complications after major cardiac surgery. These results suggest that bedside laparoscopy should be considered for all patients with equivocal abdominal symptoms in this setting.