Molecular mechanism underlying partial and full agonism mediated by the human cholecystokinin-1 receptor. The cholecystokinin-1 receptor (CCK1R) is a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that regulates important physiological functions. As for other GPCRs, the molecular basis of full and partial agonism is still far from clearly understood. In the present report, using both laboratory experiments and molecular modeling approaches, we have investigated the partial agonism mechanism of JMV 180, on the human CCK1R. We first showed that efficacy of the CCK1R to activate phospholipase C is dependent on the correct orientation of the C-terminal end of peptidic ligands toward residue Phe(330) of helix VI. We have previously reported that a single mutation of Met(121) (helix III) markedly reduced the receptor-mediated inositol phosphate production upon stimulation by CCK. Computational simulations predicted that residue 121 affected orientation of the C-terminal end of CCK, thus suggesting that the molecular complex with a reduced inositol phosphate production observed with the mutated CCK1R resembles that resulting from binding of JMV 180 to the WT-CCK1R. Pharmacological, biochemical, and functional characterizations of the two receptor.ligand complexes with decreased abilities to signal were carried out in different cell types. We found that they presented the same features, such as total dependence of inositol phosphate production to Galpha(q) expression, single affinity of binding sites, insensitivity of binding to non-hydrolyzable GTP, absence of GTPgamma[S(35)] binding following agonist stimulation, similarity of dose-response curves for amylase secretion, and incapacity to induce acute pancreatitis in pancreatic acini. We concluded that helices VI and III of the CCK1R are functionally linked through the CCK1R agonist binding site and that positioning of the C-terminal ends of peptidic agonists toward Phe(330) of helix VI is responsible for extent of phospholipase C activation through Galpha(q) coupling. Given the potential therapeutic interest of partial agonists such as JMV 180, our structural data will serve for target structure-based design of new CCK1R ligands.