Polyamine levels in the pancreas and the blood change according to the severity of pancreatitis. Polyamines are essential to survival, growth, and proliferation of mammalian cells. Previous studies have suggested that the pancreatic polyamine levels may change in acute pancreatitis. In this study, the changes of polyamine levels in the pancreas have been studied with respect to the severity of pancreatitis. We investigated whether there is a relationship in polyamine levels between pancreas and blood, and whether pancreatic and blood polyamine levels change according to the severity of pancreatitis.In rats, sublethal pancreatitis was induced by intraductal infusion of 2% taurodeoxycholate, while lethal pancreatitis was induced with 6% taurodeoxycholate.Infusion of 6% taurodeoxycholate as compared with 2% resulted in more severe pancreatitis, as revealed by mortality, histology, and serum amylase activity. Pancreatic spermidine/spermine N(1)-acetyltransferase was induced early after pancreatitis and was associated with increased putrescine and decreased spermidine levels. The extent of pancreatic necrosis significantly correlated with the polyamine catabolism indicators pancreatic putrescine/spermidine ratio (r = 0.29, p < 0.01) and pancreatic putrescine/spermine ratio (r = 0.32, p < 0.01). The two pancreatic polyamine ratios correlated well also with the red blood cell polyamine ratios (r = 0.75 and r = 0.72, respectively, both p < 0.01). Furthermore, the extent of pancreatic necrosis correlated with red blood cell putrescine/spermidine (r = 0.32, p < 0.01) and putrescine/spermine (r = 0.37, p < 0.01) ratios.Acute experimental pancreatitis is associated with an early pancreatic spermidine/spermine N(1)-acetyltransferase induction and consequent changes in polyamine levels in pancreas and red blood cells, depending on the severity of pancreatitis. Because changes in red blood cell spermidine, spermine, and putrescine levels evolve already early during the time course of pancreatitis, and correlate with the extent of pancreatic necrosis, their clinical value as early markers of the severity of acute pancreatitis needs to be further evaluated. and IAP.