Action of CCK on CDE diet-induced acute pancreatitis in rats treated with hydrocortisone. The present work studies the effect of previous hydrocortisone administration (10 mg/kg/day) over 7 days on the later development of diet-induced acute pancreatitis in the rat. Acute pancreatitis was induced by feeding a diet deficient in choline and supplemented with 0.5% ethionine (CDE diet) over 10 days. Hydrocortisone pretreatment exacerbated CDE-induced acute pancreatitis. There was a significant increase in serum amylase, pancreatic edema, and haematocrit levels and an insignificant decrease in pancreatic mass in rats pretreated with hydrocortisone. Pancreatic enzyme secretion was strongly reduced in the rats subjected to acute pancreatitis, and although the drop in enzyme levels did not reach statistical significance, the values of secretion were even further reduced in the animals treated with hydrocortisone, pointing to the absence of pancreatic functionality. This effect can be attributed to enzyme storage elicited by previous hydrocortisone administration activated intracellularly, these enzymes could aggravate the pathology. Administration of the cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) (10 micrograms/kg/day) during the development of acute pancreatitis in animals pretreated with hydrocortisone substantially improved the general state of the animals' pancreases. There was a significant decrease in serum amylase, pancreatic edema and haematocrit levels in rats injected with CCK, which was accompanied by an increase in pancreatic functionality. Conversely, the administration of L-364,718 (0.1 mg/kg/day), a CCK antagonist, did not improve pancreatic functionality and did not appreciably affect the general state of the organ. It is concluded that in rats with storage levels increased by hydrocortisone administration that are subjected to acute pancreatitis, the secretagogue effect of CCK is more beneficial than the repose of the gland induced by L-364,718.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)