Induction of chronic pancreatic disease by trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid infusion into rat pancreatic ducts. Despite being a common disease in humans, little is known about the etiopathogenesis of and effective therapeutic approaches to chronic pancreatitis, due mainly to the fact that few simple animal models suitable to study inflammatory and fibrogenetic processes have been described in the pancreas. Trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS) induces chronic colitis and cholangitis in the rat. We hypothesized that TNBS instillation into the pancreatic ducts could also result in the development of a chronic pancreatic disease. The biliopancreatic duct of rats was cannulated and tied close to the liver. TNBS [0.4 ml of 2% TNBS in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)-10% ethanol, pH 8] was infused into the pancreas under a continuous controlled-pressure system. Control rats underwent the same procedure using vehicle only. Pathology assessment of TNBS-treated rats examined at 48 h was consistent with severe acute necrotizing pancreatitis, having a morality rate of 31% and serum amylase activity of 37.4 +/- 8.8 U/ml at 24 h and 13.3 +/- 1.7 U/ml at 48 h (p < 0.01 for both time points compared to PBS/ethanol-treated rats). Groups of 10 rats each were killed at 3, 4, and 6 week after the surgical procedure. Morphological examination revealed changes mimicking features of chronic pancreatitis in humans in 80% (32 of 40) of TNBS-treated rats, consisting in various degrees of periductal and lobular fibrosis, duct stenosis, patchy acute and chronic inflammatory cell infiltrates, and signs of gland atrophy. Animals developing chronic disease had a weight gain rate significantly lower than that of control rats. Serum amylase, fasting glucose, and a glucose tolerance test were not different in diseased or control rats. In conclusion, we were able to induce chronic fibrogenetic inflammatory disease in the pancreas after a single pulse instillation of TNBS into the pancreatic ducts. This might be a useful animal model to study the pathophysiology of inflammatory, fibrogenetic, and reparative processes in pancreatic tissue.