Interleukin-10 reduces circulating levels of serum cytokines in experimental pancreatitis. Over the past few years, evidence has accumulated that implicates proinflammatory cytokines as the mediators responsible for the escalation of acute pancreatitis into a multisystem disease. It has been shown that the degree of serum cytokine elevation, particularly the macrophage-derived cytokines interleukin-1, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, correlates with the severity and outcome of acute pancreatitis. Interleukin-10 is an anti-inflammatory cytokine that inhibits cytokine production from the macrophage. The aim of this study was to determine whether interleukin-10 would decrease both the severity of acute pancreatitis and the level of circulating proinflammatory cytokines. Ninety female mice were divided into three equal groups. Group 1 (controls) received intraperitoneal saline solution. Groups 2 and 3 received intraperitoneal cerulein (50 mg/kg/hr) for 7 hours. In addition, group 3 was given 1500 units of intraperitoneal interleukin-10, beginning 1 hour after the induction of acute pancreatitis and every 3 hours thereafter. Animals were killed at 3-hour intervals. Blood samples were obtained for serum amylase and cytokine determinations (interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha). Pancreata were dissected free and fixed in formalin for blinded histologic scoring. Interleukin-10 reduced the serum levels of interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and amylase in comparison to untreated animals with pancreatitis (P < 0.05). Pancreatic edema, necrosis, and inflammatory cell infiltrate were also reduced in those animals given interleukin-10 (P <0.05). Histologic score, serum cytokines, and amylase levels are elevated during acute pancreatitis. Interleukin-10 given therapeutically, that is, after the onset of acute pancreatitis, lessened the severity of disease, probably through inhibition of the macrophage. This was associated with a decrease in circulating cytokine levels.