<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2011-05-31</DATELINE><TITLE>Financial volatility trading using a self-organising neural-fuzzy semantic network and option straddle-based approach</TITLE><BODY>Abstract Financial volatility refers to the intensity of the fluctuations in the expected return on an investment or the pricing of a financial asset due to market uncertainties. Hence, volatility modeling and forecasting is imperative to financial market investors, as such projections allow the investors to adjust their trading strategies in anticipation of the impending financial market movements. Following this, financial volatility trading is the capitalization of the uncertainties of the financial markets to realize investment profits in times of rising, falling and side-way market conditions. In this paper, an intelligent straddle trading system (framework) that consists of a volatility projection module (VPM) and a trade decision module (TDM) is proposed for financial volatility trading via the buying and selling of option straddles to help a human trader capitalizes on the underlying uncertainties of the Hong Kong stock market. Three different measures, namely: (1) the historical volatility (HV), (2) implied volatility (IV) and (3) model-based volatility (MV) of the Hang Seng Index (HSI) are employed to quantify the implicit volatility of the Hong Kong stock market. The TDM of the proposed straddle trading system combines the respective volatility measures with the well-established moving-averages convergence/divergence (MACD) principle to recommend trading actions to a human trader dealing in HSI straddles. However, the inherent limitation of the MACD trading rule is that it generates time-delayed trading signals due to the use of moving averages, which are essentially lagging trend indicators. This drawback is intuitively addressed in the proposed straddle trading system by applying the VPM to compute future projections of the volatility measures of the HSI prior to the activation of the TDM. The VPM is realized by a self-organising neural-fuzzy semantic network named the evolving fuzzy semantic memory (eFSM) model. As compared to existing statistical and computational intelligence based modeling techniques currently employed for financial volatility modeling and forecasting, eFSM possesses several desirable attributes such as: (1) an evolvable knowledge base to continuously address the non-stationary characteristics of the Hong Kong stock market; (2) highly formalized human-like information computations; and (3) a transparent structure that can be interpreted via a set of linguistic IF–THEN semantic fuzzy rules. These qualities provide added credence to the computed HSI volatility projections. The volatility modeling and forecasting performances of the eFSM, when benchmarked to several established modeling techniques, as well as the observed trading returns of the proposed straddle trading system, are encouraging.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>