<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2007-08-02</DATELINE><TITLE>New Insights into the Roles of Metalloproteinases in Neurodegeneration and Neuroprotection</TITLE><BODY>Proteolytic enzymes constitute around 2% of the human genome and are involved in many stages of cell development from fertilization to death (apoptosis). The identification of many novel proteases from genome‐sequencing programs has suggested them as potential new therapeutic targets. In addition, several well‐characterized metallopeptidases were recently shown to possess new biological roles in neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. As a result of these studies, metabolism of the neurotoxic and inflammatory amyloid peptide (Aβ) is considered as a physiologically relevant process with several metallopeptidases being suggested for the role of amyloid‐degrading enzymes. These include the neprilysin (NEP) family of metalloproteinases (including its homologue endothelin‐converting enzyme), insulin‐degrading enzyme, angiotensin‐converting enzyme, plasmin, and, possibly, some other enzymes. NEP also has a role in metabolism of sensory and inflammatory neuropeptides such as tachykinins and neurokinins. The existence of natural enzymatic mechanisms for removal of amyloid peptides has extended the therapeutic avenues in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and neurodegeneration. The proteolytic events underlying AD are highly compartmentalized in the cell and formation of amyloid peptide from its precursor molecule APP (amyloid precursor protein) takes place both within intracellular compartments and in the plasma membrane, especially in lipid raft domains. Degradation of amyloid peptide by metallopeptidases can also be both intra‐ and extracellular depending on the activity of membrane‐bound enzymes and their soluble partners. Soluble forms of proteases can be secreted or released from the cell surface through the activity of “sheddases”—another group of proteolytic enzymes involved in key cellular regulatory functions. The activity of proteases involved in amyloid metabolism depends on numerous factors (e.g., genetic, environmental, age), and some conditions (e.g., hypoxia and ischemia) shift the balance of amyloid metabolism toward accumulation of higher concentrations of Aβ. In this regard, regulation of the activity of amyloid‐degrading enzymes should be considered as a viable strategy in neuroprotection.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>