<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>1992-11-30</DATELINE><TITLE>Demyelination, and remyelination by Schwann cells and oligodendrocytes after kainate-induced neuronal depletion in the central nervous system</TITLE><BODY>Abstract Excitotoxins are thought to kill neurons while sparing afferent fibers and axons of passage. The validity of this classical conclusion has recently been questioned by the demonstration of axonal demyelination. In addition, axons are submitted to a profound alteration of their glial environment. This work was, therefore, undertaken to reassess axonoglial interactions over time after an excitotoxic lesion in the rat. Ultrastructural studies were carried out in the ventrobasal thalamus two days to 18 months after neuronal depletion by in situ injections of kainic acid. In some cases, lemniscal afferents were identified by using anterograde transport of wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase from the dorsal column nuclei. Two and four days after kainate injection, numerous dying axons displaying typical signs of Wallerian degeneration were observed in a neuropile characterized by the loss of neuronal somata and dendrites, an increase in number of microglia/macrophages and the disappearance of astrocytes. Ten and 12 days after kainate injection, degenerating axons were no longer observed although myelin degeneration of otherwise unaltered axons was ongoing with an accumulation of myelin remnants in the neuropile. At 16 and 20 days, the demyelination process was apparently complete and axons of different diameters were sometimes packed together. One and two months after kainate injection, the axonal environment changed again: remyelination of large-caliber axons occurred at the same time as reactive astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and numerous Schwann cells appeared in the tissue. Schwann cell processes surrounded aggregates of axons of diverse calibers, ensheathed small ones and myelinated larger ones. Axons were also remyelinated by oligodendrocytes. Horseradish peroxidase-labeled lemniscal afferents could be myelinated by either of the two cell types. After three months, the neuropile exhibited an increase in number of hypertrophied astrocytes and the progressive loss of any other cellular or axonal element. At this stage, remaining Schwann cells were surrounded by a glia limitans formed by astrocytic processes. These data indicate that although excitotoxins are sparing the axons, they are having a profound and complex effect on the axonal environment. Demyelination occurs over the first weeks, accompanying the loss of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Axonal ensheathment and remyelination takes place in a second period, associated with the reappearance of oligodendrocytes and recruitment of numerous Schwann cells, while reactive astrocytes appear in the tissue at a slightly later time. Over the following months, astrocytes occupy a greater proportion of the neuron-depleted territory and other elements decrease in number. These successive stages in alteration of axonoglial interactions seem to evolve in parallel to the changes in density and terminal morphology that we described earlier for myelinated afferent fibers to the excitotoxic lesion.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>