<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2015-01-23</DATELINE><TITLE>Trends in Nonparenteral Delivery of Biologics, Vaccines and Cancer Therapies</TITLE><BODY>Recent years have witnessed the development and advancement of many nonparenteral biologics and vaccines for human use. This chapter discusses various nonparenteral routes of administration. The oral route of administration is the most preferred and patient compliant method of them all. Transdermal, buccal, and pulmonary routes are also discussed. We have developed novel technologies using nanoparticles and microparticles to deliver vaccines by the oral and transdermal route of administration. These new technologies enable the formulation of vaccine particles containing vaccine antigens, without loss of their biological activity during the formulation process. Also, multiple antigens, targeting ligands and adjuvants can all be encapsulated within the same particle. When administered orally, these particles are designed to withstand the acidic environment of the stomach and are targeted to the Peyer’s patches and the gut-associated mucosal immune system. Because these vaccines are particulate in nature, they are readily taken up by phagocytic antigen presenting cells (APCs), such as M cells, dendritic cells, and macrophages in the Peyer’s patches of the intestines, resulting in a strong immune response and antibody production. Of particular interest is the fact that the particles release the antigen in a slow and sustained manner over a prolonged time period, intracellularly into APCs, resulting in strong mucosal and systemic immunity after oral administration, without the need for added adjuvants that are typically present in current vaccine preparations. Because no needles are required for oral vaccines, this method of vaccine delivery is inexpensive and suitable for mass vaccination in the developing world as well as for the developed world. This chapter discusses studies conducted on a wide array of vaccines, including infectious disease vaccines and cancer vaccines. This method of vaccine delivery enables the delivery of a wide spectrum of vaccines for prophylactic and therapeutic use, including oral and transdermal vaccines for cancer such as human papillomavirus, melanoma, ovarian, breast, and prostate with encouraging results. With respect to cancer therapy, a comparison is made between the conventional cancer therapy and immunotherapy. With a wide range of nanocarriers available for delivery of biologics, vaccines, and cancer therapies, nanotechnology not only has gained the well-deserved limelight but has also attracted the attention of regulatory bodies, although it presents certain challenges that must be considered before marketing such nanocarriers.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>