Whole gut washout ameliorates the progression of acute experimental pancreatitis. Septic complications are mainly responsible for deterioration of a patient with acute pancreatitis. Intestinal tract is accepted as the main source of pancreatic or peripancreatic infection.Acute pancreatitis was induced in 40 Sprague-Dawley rats by ligation of the main biliopancreatic duct. Animals were divided into two groups. The first group of animals (n = 20) received high volume polyethylene glycol-3500 (GoLYTELY) for 6 hours through a silastic catheter introduced into the proximal part of the jejunum from a puncture gastrostomy during the initial laparotomy. The second group animals (n = 20) did not receive any treatment. Half of the animals from each group were sacrificed 72 hours later and tissue samples were taken from mesenteric lymph nodes, pancreas, spleen, and liver for bacteriologic cultures. Cecum cultures were also prepared. Blood samples at 72 hours were obtained for the measurement of amylase, lactic dehydrogenase (LDH), lactic acid, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), glucose, calcium, arterial pH, base excess, partial oxygen pressure, bicarbonate, leucocyte count, and hematocrit levels. The pancreas was examined histopathologically. The remaining half of the animals from each group were allowed to survive until death.The levels of amylase, LDH, ALT, lactic acid, pH, pO(2), bicarbonate and base excess for the rats in group I were significantly lower when compared with the rats in group II (P<0.05). Positive mesenteric lymph node cultures were detected in 30% of group I animals whereas they were positive in 90% of group II animals (P = 0.0198). Distant organ cultures were positive in 8 animals (liver 5, spleen 2, pancreas 1) in group II, whereas only one positive distant organ culture (liver) was established in group I (P>0.05). Histopathological scoring observed in the pancreas were less severe for the rats in group I when compared with the rats in group II (P = 0.012). The rats in group I survived longer than the rats in group II (median survival 6.8 days versus 17.3 days, P<0.001).Whole gut washout with high-volume polyethylene glycol in pancreatitis reduced the blood levels of enzymes and increased the survival. Whole gut washout for acute pancreatitis appears effective to ameliorate the prognostic factors in blood and this modality may be a promising treatment method in acute pancreatitis.