Pancreatic transplantation and subsequent graft surveillance by pancreatic portal-enteric anastomosis and temporary venting jejunostomy. To evaluate portal-enteric (PE) pancreas and kidney transplantation with venting jejunostomy (VJ) for its efficacy, safety, and reproducibility.Simultaneous pancreas and kidney transplantation for patients with long-standing insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus that progresses to renal failure has revolutionized their treatment and quality of life. A current clinical focus is to refine the technical aspects of this procedure. Simultaneous pancreas and kidney transplantation with PE anastomosis with VJ appears to offer several advantages over bladder drainage. VJ allows initial decompression of the enteric anastomosis, monitoring of pancreatic function by ostomy amylase, and simple access for endoscopic evaluation and biopsy of the allograft.Simultaneous pancreas and kidney transplantation with VJ was performed in 21 patients from December 1996 to October 2000 at Willis Knighton/LSU Regional Transplant Center. All patients had long-standing insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and subsequent renal failure. They were evaluated at the time of surgery by a multidisciplinary transplant team and monitored for numerous factors, including length of hospital stay, immunosuppressive regimen, and ischemia times. All patients had intermittent visual and biochemical evaluation of pancreatic secretions monitored by means of the VJ.Of the 21 patients, 10 were women and 11 were men. Four patients were black and 17 were white. The mean age at transplantation was 38 years average human leukocyte antigen (HLA) match was oneThe authors believe that PE pancreatic drainage with VJ is a more physiologic method to perform pancreatic transplantation than bladder drainage. PE drainage allows rapid diagnosis of acute rejection and anastomotic leak and provides a simple way to monitor ostomy amylase and transplant duodenal bleeding. This technique is safe and has minimal associated complications.