Comparison of Celsior and UW solution in experimental pancreas preservation. The University of Wisconsin solution (UW) is the gold standard for pancreas preservation. Celsior (CEL) was formulated specifically for heart preservation. Recently, experimental and clinical experience has been reported on the application of CEL to abdominal organs. In this animal study, pancreas preservation with CEL was compared with that in UW solution.Heterotopic, allogeneic pancreaticoduodenal transplantation was performed in female Göttingen Minipigs (n = 12 donors, n = 12 recipients). The grafts were flushed and stored for 6 h at 4 degrees C in UW or CEL. The recipients were randomized into two groups receiving either UW (n = 6)- or CEL (n = 6)-preserved grafts with a follow-up of 5 days. Blood flow (laser Doppler), partial oxygen tension, histological changes, endothelin-1 (plasma, immunohistochemistry), lipase, amylase, trypsinogen activation peptide, and C-reactive protein (CRP) were measured.Partial oxygen tension was lower in the CEL group (P < 0.05). However, blood flow did not differ between UW- and CEL-preserved organs. The histomorphologic analysis of the pancreatic grafts revealed significantly less edema in the UW-preserved organs. Serum levels of amylase, lipase, CRP, and TAP taken from the central venous blood were comparable in the two groups, except for higher amylase values 36 h after reperfusion in the CEL group compared to the UW group (P < 0.05). Likewise, TAP taken from the portal venous effluent of the graft was found to be higher in the CEL group than in UW (P < 0.05). Endothelin-1 serum levels rose significantly during reperfusion without differences between the two groups. ET-1 immunohistochemistry revealed increased local ET-1 during reperfusion in all grafts. However, the ET-1 immunostaining in the CEL group was more pronounced than that in the UW group (P < 0.05).Our results suggest that CEL solution is not as effective in preventing pancreatic ischemia/reperfusion damage as the standard UW solution in experimental pancreas transplantation. Increased ET-1 immunostaining and reduced p(ti)O(2) in the CEL group indicate increased microcirculatory damage in the CEL group.