Pancreas pancreatitis--Polish accomplishments. Polish accomplishments in clinical and experimental pancreatology concern acute (AP) and chronic (CP) pancreatitis. Special notice was drawn in Polish studies on hemostasis disorders in acute experimental pancreatitis (AEP), and resulting clinical implications (possibility of thrombotic-embolic complications leading to hemorrhagic defects associated with coagulation factors consumption). Studies on lysosomal hydrolases role in AEP pathogenesis were discussed. In those studies notice was drawn to initiating role of zymogen activation by lysosomal hydrolases, especially beta-glucuronidase, with smaller activity of acid phosphatase and cathepsin in this process. It was stated, that also lysosomal enzymes are released from macrophages obtained from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid in AEP. It was revealed that prostacyclin (PGI(2)) shows stabilizing effect on lysosomes in liver and kidneys in AEP. Platelets activating factor antagonist inhibits pulmonary lysosomal hydrolases activity in such conditions. Polish studies concerning reactive forms of oxygen role in AEP pathogenesis are one of the first in Europe. Oxidative-antioxidative balance was disturbed in acute pancreatitis course and associated multiorgan changes both under experimental conditions and in humans. Oxidative stress as an early prognostic symptom in AP in humans was also emphasized, showing correlation of oxidative stress indicators with phospholipase A serum activity and polymorphonuclear elastase in plasma of patients with different degree of this disease. In a range of clinical studies special attention should be given to studies concerning lipid disorders as an AP etiological factor in humans. Clear decrease in lipoprotein lipase activity in AP in humans was determined. Polish studies concerning importance of sphincterectomy in acute gallstone derivative pancreatitis (AGP) were presented. Polish researchers accomplishments in chronic alcoholic pancreatitis (CAP) etiopathogenesis were discussed.