Asymptomatic nonspecific serum hyperamylasemia and hyperlipasemia: spectrum of MRCP findings and clinical implications. We assessed the magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatographic (MRCP) findings in patients with asymptomatic, mild elevations of serum amylase and lipase levels to determine whether there might be a pathoanatomic cause for these laboratory abnormalities. MRCP was performed in 633 consecutive patients. Of these, 54 (8.5%) images were obtained in patients with asymptomatic serum hyperamylasemia and hyperlipasemia. MRCP was performed on a 1.0-T MR system breath-hold gradient-recall, half-Fourier acquisition, and rapid acquisition with relaxation enhancement sequences were obtained. Findings were verified by follow-up, biopsy, or surgery. One-sided, large-sample z tests were used to compare the incidence of abnormalities between the study and control groups (579 patients). The pancreas appeared abnormal on MRCP in 31 patients (57%), including the pancreas divisum in 10 patients (18.5%). Other findings included morphologic changes compatible with chronic pancreatitis in nine patients (16.6%) and a healed pancreatic laceration, juxtapapillary duodenal diverticulum, papillary sclerosis, intraductal pancreatic lithiasis, and hemochromatosis in one patient each (1.9%). Small cystic lesions (< 1 cm) within the pancreas were seen in 15 patients (27.8%). In eight patients, these were associated with other abnormalities (pancreas divisum in three patients, chronic pancreatitis in four, and pancreatic laceration in one). No malignancy was diagnosed. The incidences of normal examination (p = 0.01), pancreas divisum (p < 0.005), and a small cystic lesion (p = 0.01) as solitary findings in this subgroup of patients were significantly higher when compared with the remainder of the studied population. Investigation of asymptomatic patients with nonspecific hyperamylasemia and hyperlipasemia by means of MRCP yielded pancreatic findings in more than 50% of these patients. Pancreas divisum was found more often than expected in the general population.