The antidiabetic effects of cysteinyl metformin, a newly synthesized agent, in alloxan- and streptozocin-induced diabetic rats. In this paper, the antidiabetic effects of cysteinyl metformin (CM), a newly synthesized agent, were investigated to evaluate the hypoglycemic/hypolipidemic effects by measuring blood glucose, triglyceride and insulin levels in CM- and metformin-treated diabetic rats. Two diabetic models were used: (1) an alloxan-induced model in which diabetes was produced by alloxan (200 mg/kg, i.p.), then rats were treated with CM (300, 100 and 33 mg/kg) for 14 days (2) a streptozocin-induced model in which diabetes was produced by streptozocin (30 mg/kg, i.p.) and a sustained high lipid diet, then rats were treated with CM for 8 weeks. The hypoglycemic effect of CM exceeded that of metformin while the hypolipidemic effect was similar. In addition, CM increased the blood insulin level of the alloxan-induced experimental animals (which had an insulin deficiency), but reduced the insulin level of the streptozocin-induced animals (which had an insulin excess), suggesting that CM improves pancreatic beta-cell function. The effects of CM, metformin and cysteine on the antioxidant defense system in alloxan-induced rats were also studied. The serum malondialdehyde (MDA) level was determined to provide evidence for lipid peroxidation, All the groups of animals given CM, metformin and cysteine exhibited less severe oxidative stress than the diabetic group. Then, several key antioxidants such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), reduced glutathione (GSH), catalase (CAT) and the pancreatic exocrine enzyme amylase (AMS) were measured. CM restored the activity of all these agents to nearly normal values while metformin and cysteine merely restored the activity of SOD. At the end of our study, the animals were sacrificed by decapitation and the liver, kidney and pancreas were weighed to allow investigation of organ edema. The results obtained showed that CM corrected the organ edema of the diabetic rats. All these findings suggested that CM has a protective effect on the antioxidant defense system and beta-cell dysfunction in alloxan-induced diabetic rats. All these results suggest that CM is a potential candidate for the future treatment of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes.