Pretreatment with obestatin inhibits the development of cerulein-induced pancreatitis. Obestatin is a peptide derived from the proghrelin, a common prohormone for ghrelin and obestatin. Obestatin, like the ghrelin has been originally extracted from rat stomach, and the stomach seems to be a major source of circulating obestatin. Previous studies have shown that administration of ghrelin exhibits protective effect in the pancreas, inhibiting the development of acute pancreatitis. Recent study has shown that obestatin promotes survival of beta-cells and pancreatic islets. Aim of the present study was to investigate the influence of obestatin administration on the development of cerulein-induced pancreatitis. Studies were performed on male Wistar rats. Acute pancreatitis was induced by cerulein given intraperitoneally 5 times at a dose of 50 microg/kg/dose with 1-h intervals. Obestatin was injected twice intraperitoneally at the dose of 4, 8 or 16 nmol/kg/dose. In control saline-treated rats, obestatin was without effect on pancreatic morphology, serum activity of pancreatic enzymes, serum level of pro-inflammatory interleukin-1beta or pancreatic cells proliferation. In animals with induction of acute pancreatitis, morphological examination showed that administration of obestatin decreased pancreatic leukocyte infiltration and vacuolization of acinar cells. These effects were accompanied by reduction in the pancreatitis-evoked increase in serum level of pancreatic digestive enzymes, lipase amylase and poly-C ribonuclease. Obestatin administered at the highest dose of 16 nmo/kg/dose reduced serum activity of these enzymes by 33, 42 and 44%, respectively. Also serum concentration of pro-inflammatory interleukin-1beta was decreased by obestatin in rats with acute pancreatitis whereas the pancreatitis-evoked decrease in pancreatic blood flow and pancreatic DNA synthesis was partially reversed. Administration of obestatin reduces the severity of cerulein-induced acute pancreatitis. This effect is related, at least in part, to the improvement of pancreatic blood flow and reduction in proinflammatory interleukin-1beta release.