Prevention by prostaglandins of caerulein-induced pancreatitis in rats. Acute edematous pancreatitis was produced in rats by subcutaneous administration of caerulein. Pancreas weight, pancreas histology and plasma amylase were used as endpoints to quantitate the severity of the syndrome. A caerulein dose of 10 micrograms/kg.hour produced the most severe pancreatitis, whereas at 5 micrograms/kg.hour the values were half-maximal. The pancreatic lesions were characterized by edema, formation of cytoplasmic vacuoles, leukocytic infiltration, necrosis, and with time (12-hour caerulein infusion) dilated acini. Cholecystokinin octapeptide also produced pancreatitis when given at ten times the dose required for caerulein (50 micrograms/kg.hour instead of 5 micrograms/kg.hour). Carbachol did not induce pancreatitis. Two prostaglandins, 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2 injected subcutaneously and prostaglandin E2 infused subcutaneously, dose dependently prevented caerulein-induced pancreatitis (pancreatic edema, leukocytic infiltration, and necrosis) and reduced the number and size of intracellular vacuoles. The ED50 were 15 to 25 micrograms/kg for 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2 and 90 micrograms/kg.hour for prostaglandin E2. Neither prostaglandin, given at doses inhibiting the development of pancreatitis, prevented the retardation of gastric emptying caused by caerulein, a finding suggesting that the prostaglandins may act specifically on the effect of caerulein on the pancreas but not on caerulein receptors in gastric smooth muscle. Indomethacin, an inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis, and methscopolamine bromide, an anticholinergic agent, had no effect on caerulein-induced pancreatitis. We concluded that prostaglandins of the E type prevent the development of caerulein-induced pancreatitis. The mechanism by which prostaglandins protect the pancreas may involve stabilization of lysosomes within the acinar cells and inhibition of intracellular activation of pancreatic digestive enzymes.