Effects of pancreatic duct ligation and aging on acute taurocholate-induced pancreatitis. Experiments in the perfused pancreas in rats. When taurocholate was injected into the common bile duct, high ductal pressure due to ligation of the pancreatic duct did not produce more damage in the pancreas of both old rats and young adult rats, and levels of pancreatic enzymes in portal venous effluent were lower in old rats than in younger rats.The effects of ligation of the pancreatic duct and aging on acute pancreatitis caused by taurocholate are still unclear.Young adult and old male Wistar rats were used. Six hours after ligation of the common bile duct in both the duodenum and liver hilus, rats were killed and the pancreata were perfused. Taurocholate or normal saline was injected retrogradely into the common bile duct. The levels of amylase and lipase in the portal venous effluent were determined as markers of damage to the pancreas. The pancreas was also histologically examined after the perfusion experiments using an Image Analysis System.(1) A nonsignificant elevation of pancreatic enzymes was found in portal venous effluent by the retrograde injection of saline into the common bile duct. Injection of taurocholate caused a marked elevation of enzymes in the effluent for the first 30 min after injection, which then gradually decreased. (2) Basal levels of pancreatic enzymes were significantly higher in the ligation group than in the nonligation group. Injection of saline into the common bile duct had no apparent effect on enzymes in the effluent. In contrast, taurocholate injection into the common bile duct produced a marked increase in enzymes in the portal venous effluent. However, no significant difference was found between the ligation group and the nonligation group. (3) Similar findings were obtained when old rats were used. (4) Although basal levels of enzymes were almost the same in nonligated old and young adults rats, taurocholate injection into the pancreatic duct in old rats resulted in a significant depression of enzymes compared to that in young adult rats. In the ligation group, pancreatic enzymes in the portal venous effluent following taurocholate injection tended to be lower in old rats than in young adult rats. The results were histologically supported in that various degrees of fibrosis were found in the pancreata of old rats.