Stunting syndrome in broilers: effect of age and exogenous amylase and protease on performance, development of the digestive tract, digestive enzyme activity, and apparent digestibility. Day-old male, meat-type chicks raised in brooder batteries were infected by orally administering an inoculum prepared from intestines of broiler chicks infected with stunting syndrome (SS). Naive controls were kept in a parallel room. The chicks were fed a commercial starter diet supplemented with two levels of enzyme preparations to 14 d of age. The experiment was continued to the age of 6 wk in order to estimate compensatory feed intake and growth. In a parallel study, digestibility of the feed was determined from 1 to 3 wk of age with control or inoculated chicks. The enzymes amylase and proteases were produced by Bacillus subtilis and Penicillium emersonii. Enzyme supplementation had no effect on feed intake, growth, or feed utilization, or on digestibility of fat, starch, protein, or energy. Because enzyme supplementation did not consistently affect performance of chicks and no interactions were observed between enzyme supplementation and infection status, data are presented for effects of infection only. Inoculation of SS-infective material reduced performance to 4 wk. Compensatory growth and feed intake were observed from the age of 4 wk onward. At the age of 6 wk the slight retardation of the inoculated chicks was not significant. On Week 1, retention of fat, starch, protein, and energy was significantly depressed in the inoculated chicks. At the age of 2 wk, retention of starch was not depressed, and at the age of 3 wk, the only consistent depression was that observed for fat. The proventriculus weight and content were consistently higher in inoculated chicks, as were the small intestine and intestinal content. The pH of the gizzard content was higher, and that of the small intestine content was lower, in the inoculated birds than in their control counterparts. Stunting syndrome infection was accompanied by a significant depression of trypsin activity in the pancreas at the age of 1 and 2 wk. At these periods, amylase and chymotrypsin were not affected. At 6 wk of age, the activities of amylase, trypsin, and chymotrypsin in the pancreas were higher in the inoculated than in the control birds. In the intestinal chime, amylase, trypsin, and chymotrypsin activities were lower in the inoculated birds on Week 1 and 2 (NS for amylase on Week 1). On Week 6, the activity of all enzymes assayed was higher in the inoculated birds (NS for amylase). It is suggested that the main factors depressing feed intake and growth in SS-infected birds are most probably beyond those of digestion.