Defect in pancreatic exocrine and endocrine response to CCK in genetically diabetic OLETF rats. Clinical as well as experimental studies in insulinopenic diabetes mellitus have demonstrated abnormal pancreatic exocrine responses to cholecystokinin (CCK). In the present study, we examined pancreatic exocrine and endocrine function in the recently developed genetically diabetic Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima fatty (OLETF) rats and compared them with those in the control Long-Evans Tokushima Otsuka (LETO) rats of the same age. Stepwise increasing doses of CCK octapeptide (CCK-8 0.027-7.0 nmol.kg-1.h-1) evoked a characteristic biphasic dose-response curve for pancreatic juice and protein output in the LETO rats, whereas the OLETF rats were totally insensitive to CCK-8 stimulation. However, the responsiveness and the sensitivity to both carbamylcholine and secretin were similar in the two groups. Intraduodenal infusion of casein (500 mg/h) failed to stimulate pancreatic exocrine secretion in the OLETF rats despite a greater CCK response than in the LETO rats (peak response: 8.43 +/- 0.97 vs 5.12 +/- 0.30 pmol/l in LETO, P < 0.01). Intravenous infusion of CCK-8 (4.4 nmol.kg-1.20 min-1) caused a significant increase in serum insulin concentrations and a concomitant decrease in glucose levels in the LETO rats but not in the OLETF rats. On the other hand, an intravenous bolus injection of 1.1 mmol/kg glucose caused a greater insulin release in the OLETF rats than in the LETO rats. In contrast, gastric acid secretion in the OLETF rats was significantly high in basal and in response to intravenous infusion of CCK-8 compared with that in the LETO rats. Four subcutaneous injections of 20 micrograms/kg caerulein at hourly intervals over 3 h induced acute pancreatitis in the LETO rats but did not elicit any significant increase in serum amylase or lipase activities and pancreatic wet weight or histological evidence of acute pancreatitis in the OLETF rats. These results indicate that the exocrine and endocrine pancreas of the recently developed genetically diabetic OLETF rats are totally and specifically insensitive to exogenous and endogenous CCK stimulation, whereas parietal cells in these rats are sensitive to CCK stimulation.