Role of persistent infection in the control and severity of asthma: focus on Chlamydia pneumoniae. Conventional risk factors have been unable to explain most of the substantial increase in the prevalence of asthma observed in many countries during the last few decades. Much attention has been directed at the "hygiene hypothesis", the apparent inverse relationship between intense systemic childhood infections and the subsequent development of asthma and atopy. However, it is not only the absence or scarcity of infections, but the prolonged presence of certain microorganisms in the lungs that may be involved in the development of asthma. Accumulating evidence suggests that Chlamydia pneumoniae, an intracellular ubiquitous pathogen with an innate propensity to persist and cause chronic infections, may be associated with asthma. This microorganism can achieve a state of "latency" in which it is viable but dormant and does not multiply. During this state, however, chlamydia continues to synthesize the "stress" protein, a 60-kDa heat shock protein (hsp60). This protein is able to elicit a strong host inflammatory response at sites of its production and appears to be involved in tissue injury and scarring processes. As inflammation has been found to be present in almost all asthmatics, whatever the severity and aetiology of the disease, inhaled glucocorticoids now have an established position in the treatment of early stages. However, corticosteroids negatively affect many aspects of cell-mediated immunity and favour the shift from a T-helper-1-type response towards a T-helper-2-type response. Corticosteroids may thus severely deteriorate the host's ability to eradicate an intracellular pathogen, such as Chlamydia pneumoniae, which requires a properly functioning cell-mediated (T-helper-1-type) immune response to be cleared. These drugs are also able to reactivate persistent Chlamydia to an active growth phase, which, by increasing the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines at the site of infection, can further amplify inflammation in the airways of patients with asthma.