Socioeconomic status and hospital utilization among younger adult pneumonia admissions at a Canadian hospital. Although the general association between socioeconomic status (SES) and hospitalization has been well established, few studies have considered the relationship between SES and hospital length of stay (LOS), and/or hospital re-admission. The primary objective of this study therefore, was to examine the relationship of SES to LOS and early re-admission among adult patients hospitalized with community-acquired pneumonia in a setting with universal health insurance.Four hundred and thirty-four (434) individuals were included in this retrospective, longitudinal cohort analysis of adult patients less than 65 years old admitted to a large teaching hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia. Hospital chart review data were linked to population-based health plan administrative data. Chart review was used to gather data on demographics, illness severity, co-morbidity, functional status and other measures of case mix. Two different types of administrative data were used to determine hospital LOS and the occurrence of all-cause re-admission to any hospital within 30 days of discharge. SES was measured by individual-level financial hardship (receipt of income assistance or provincial disability pension) and neighbourhood-level income quintiles.Those with individual-level financial hardship had an estimated 15% (95% CI -0.4%, +32%, p = 0.057) longer adjusted LOS and greater risk of early re-admission (adjusted OR 2.65, 95% CI 1.38, 5.09). Neighbourhood-level income quintiles, showed no association with LOS or early re-admission.Among hospitalized pneumonia patients less than 65 years, financial hardship derived from individual-level data, was associated with an over two-fold greater risk of early re-admission and a marginally significant longer hospital LOS. However, the same association was not apparent when an ecological measure of SES derived from neighbourhood income quintiles was examined. The ecological SES variable, while useful in many circumstances, may lack the sensitivity to detect the full range of SES effects in clinical studies.