Association of allergic sensitization with infectious diseases burden in Roma and non-Roma children. The hypothesis whether exposure to certain infections protects from atopy remains equivocal. To further investigate this, we compared serologic markers of infection and allergic sensitization prevalence in Roma children, who live under unfavorable hygienic conditions that facilitate the spread of infections, and non-Roma children who live in the same area. Analyses included 98 Roma and 118 non-Roma children. Serum IgG antibodies for 13 foodborne- airborne- and bloodborne infectious agents were determined, and a cumulative index of exposure was calculated by adding one point for each positive infection. Specific serum IgE to certain common food- and aero-allergens was also tested. and positivity to any of them was defined as indication of atopy. Roma children were found significantly more seropositive for T. gondii, Hepatitis A, H. pylori, HSV-1, CMV, and Hepatitis B (p < 0.0001). Non-Roma children were found more seropositive for RSV and M. pneumonia (p < 0.0001). Regarding the overall prevalence of atopy or the specific IgE responses to the allergens tested, no statistically significant differences were found between Roma and non-Roma children. A positive association of the cumulative index of exposure to infections with atopy was found in the non-Roma children (OR: 1.38, 95% CI: 1.08-1.75, p = 0.01) and in the total population (OR: 1.42, 95% CI: 1.11-1.83, p = 0.01). Regarding the specific infectious agents tested, a statistically significant positive association of atopy with seropositivity was found for M. pneumoniae in the non-Roma children (OR: 3.93, 95% CI: 1.39) as well as in the total population studied (OR: 2.83, 95% CI: 1.32-6.07, p = 0.01). Despite the higher burden of exposure to the battery of the infectious agents tested among Roma children, no protective effect for allergic disease development was evident. On the contrary, a positive association of exposure to infections with evidence of atopy was found, especially evident in the non-Roma children.