<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-01-10</DATELINE><TITLE>ERK Is a Critical Regulator of JC Polyomavirus Infection</TITLE><BODY>The human JC polyomavirus (JCPyV) infects the majority of the population worldwide and presents as an asymptomatic, persistent infection in the kidneys. In individuals who are immunocompromised, JCPyV can become reactivated and cause a lytic infection in the central nervous system resulting in the fatal, demyelinating disease progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). Infection is initiated by interactions between the capsid protein viral protein 1 (VP1) and the α2,6-linked sialic acid on lactoseries tetrasaccharide c (LSTc), while JCPyV internalization is facilitated by 5-hydroxytryptamine 2 receptors (5-HT(2)Rs). The mechanisms by which the serotonin receptors mediate virus entry and the signaling cascades required to drive viral infection remain poorly understood. JCPyV was previously shown to induce phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), a downstream target of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, upon virus entry. However, it remained unclear whether ERK activation was required for JCPyV infection. Both ERK-specific small interfering RNA (siRNA) and ERK inhibitor treatments resulted in significantly diminished JCPyV infection in both kidney and glial cells yet had no effect on the infectivity of the polyomavirus simian virus 40 (SV40). Experiments characterizing the role of ERK during steps in the viral life cycle indicate that ERK activation is required for viral transcription, as demonstrated by a significant reduction in production of large T antigen (TAg), a key viral protein associated with the initiation of viral transcription and viral replication. These findings delineate the role of the MAPK-ERK signaling pathway in JCPyV infection, elucidating how the virus reprograms the host cell to promote viral pathogenesis. IMPORTANCE Viral infection is dependent upon host cell factors, including the activation of cellular signaling pathways. These interactions between viruses and host cells are necessary for infection and play an important role in viral disease outcomes. The focus of this study was to determine how the human JC polyomavirus (JCPyV), a virus that resides in the kidney of the majority of the population and can cause the fatal, demyelinating disease progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in the brains of immunosuppressed individuals, usurps a cellular signaling pathway to promote its own infectious life cycle. We demonstrated that the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), a component of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, promotes JCPyV transcription, which is required for viral infection. Our findings demonstrate that the MAPK-ERK signaling pathway is a key determinant of JCPyV infection, elucidating new information regarding the signal reprogramming of host cells by a pathogenic virus.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>