<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2014-06-04</DATELINE><TITLE>Functional Analyses of the Three Simian Hemorrhagic Fever Virus Nonstructural Protein 1 Papain-Like Proteases</TITLE><BODY>The N-terminal region of simian hemorrhagic fever virus (SHFV) nonstructural polyprotein 1a is predicted to encode three papain-like proteases (PLP1α, PLP1β, and PLP1γ). Catalytic residues and cleavage sites for each of the SHFV PLP1s were predicted by alignment of the SHFV PLP1 region sequences with each other as well as with those of other arteriviruses, and the predicted catalytic residues were shown to be proximal by homology modeling of the SHFV nsp1s on porcine respiratory and reproductive syndrome virus (PRRSV) nsp1 crystal structures. The functionality of the predicted catalytic Cys residues and cleavage sites was tested by analysis of the autoproteolytic products generated in in vitro transcription/translation reactions done with wild-type or mutant SHFV nsp1 constructs. Cleavage sites were also analyzed by mass spectroscopy analysis of selected immunoprecipitated cleavage products. The data showed that each of the three SHFV PLP1s is an active protease. Cys63 was identified as the catalytic Cys of SHFV PLP1α and is adjacent to an Ala instead of the canonical Tyr observed in other arterivirus PLP1s. SHFV PLP1γ is able to cleave at both downstream and upstream nsp1 junction sites. Although intermediate precursor polyproteins as well as alternative products generated by each of the SHFV PLP1s cleaving at sites within the N-terminal region of nsp1β were produced in the in vitro reactions, Western blotting of SHFV-infected, MA104 cell lysates with SHFV nsp1 protein-specific antibodies detected only the three mature nsp1 proteins. IMPORTANCE SHFV is unique among arteriviruses in having three N-terminal papain-like protease 1 (PLP1) domains. Other arteriviruses encode one or two active PLP1s. This is the first functional study of the SHFV PLP1s. Analysis of the products of in vitro autoprocessing of an N-terminal SHFV nonstructural 1a polypeptide fragment showed that each of the three SHFV PLP1s is active, and the predicted catalytic Cys residues and cleavage sites for each PLP1 were confirmed by testing mutant constructs. Several unique features of the SHFV PLP1s were discovered. The SHFV PLP1α catalytic Cys63 is unique among arterivirus PLP1s in being adjacent to an Ala instead of a Trp. Other arterivirus PLP1s cleave only in cis at a single downstream site, but SHFV PLP1γ can cleave at both the downstream nsp1γ-nsp2 and upstream nsp1β-nsp1γ junctions. The three mature nsp1 proteins were produced both in the in vitro reactions and in infected cells.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>