<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2017-05-24</DATELINE><TITLE>A Map of the Arenavirus Nucleoprotein-Host Protein Interactome Reveals that Junín Virus Selectively Impairs the Antiviral Activity of Double-Stranded RNA-Activated Protein Kinase (PKR)</TITLE><BODY>Arenaviruses are enveloped negative-strand RNA viruses that cause significant human disease. These viruses encode only four proteins to accomplish the viral life cycle, so each arenavirus protein likely plays unappreciated accessory roles during infection. Here we used immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry to identify human proteins that interact with the nucleoproteins (NPs) of the Old World arenavirus lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) and the New World arenavirus Junín virus (JUNV) strain Candid #1. Bioinformatic analysis of the identified protein partners of NP revealed that host translation appears to be a key biological process engaged during infection. In particular, NP associates with the double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-activated protein kinase (PKR), a well-characterized antiviral protein that inhibits cap-dependent protein translation initiation via phosphorylation of eIF2α. JUNV infection leads to increased expression of PKR as well as its redistribution to viral replication and transcription factories. Further, phosphorylation of PKR, which is a prerequisite for its ability to phosphorylate eIF2α, is readily induced by JUNV. However, JUNV prevents this pool of activated PKR from phosphorylating eIF2α, even following exposure to the synthetic dsRNA poly(I·C), a potent PKR agonist. This blockade of PKR function is highly specific, as LCMV is unable to similarly inhibit eIF2α phosphorylation. JUNV's ability to antagonize the antiviral activity of PKR appears to be complete, as silencing of PKR expression has no impact on viral propagation. In summary, we provide a detailed map of the host machinery engaged by arenavirus NPs and identify an antiviral pathway that is subverted by JUNV. IMPORTANCE Arenaviruses are important human pathogens for which FDA-approved vaccines do not exist and effective antiviral therapeutics are needed. Design of antiviral treatment options and elucidation of the mechanistic basis of disease pathogenesis will depend on an increased basic understanding of these viruses and, in particular, their interactions with the host cell machinery. Identifying host proteins critical for the viral life cycle and/or pathogenesis represents a useful strategy to uncover new drug targets. This study reveals, for the first time, the extensive human protein interactome of arenavirus nucleoproteins and uncovers a potent antiviral host protein that is neutralized during Junín virus infection. In so doing, it shows further insight into the interplay between the virus and the host innate immune response and provides an important data set for the field.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>