<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2014-09-24</DATELINE><TITLE>Overlapping and Distinct Molecular Determinants Dictating the Antiviral Activities of TRIM56 against Flaviviruses and Coronavirus</TITLE><BODY>The tripartite motif-containing (TRIM) proteins have emerged as a new class of host antiviral restriction factors, with several demonstrating roles in regulating innate antiviral responses. Of >70 known TRIMs, TRIM56 inhibits replication of bovine viral diarrhea virus, a ruminant pestivirus of the family Flaviviridae, but has no appreciable effect on vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), a rhabdovirus. Yet the antiviral spectrum of TRIM56 remains undefined. In particular, how TRIM56 impacts human-pathogenic viruses is unknown. Also unclear are the molecular determinants governing the antiviral activities of TRIM56. Herein, we show that TRIM56 poses a barrier to infections by yellow fever virus (YFV), dengue virus serotype 2 (DENV2), and human coronavirus virus (HCoV) OC43 but not encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV). Moreover, by engineering cell lines conditionally expressing various TRIM56 mutants, we demonstrated that TRIM56's antiflavivirus effects required both the E3 ligase activity that lies in the N-terminal RING domain and the integrity of its C-terminal portion, while the restriction of HCoV-OC43 relied upon the TRIM56 E3 ligase activity alone. Furthermore, TRIM56 was revealed to impair YFV and DENV2 propagation by suppressing intracellular viral RNA accumulation but to compromise HCoV-OC43 infection at a later step in the viral life cycle, suggesting that distinct TRIM56 domains accommodate differing antiviral mechanisms. Altogether, TRIM56 is a versatile antiviral host factor that confers resistance to YFV, DENV2, and HCoV-OC43 through overlapping and distinct molecular determinants. IMPORTANCE We previously reported tripartite motif protein 56 (TRIM56) as a host restriction factor of bovine viral diarrhea virus, a ruminant pathogen. However, the impact of TRIM56 on human-pathogenic RNA viruses is unknown. Herein, we demonstrate that TRIM56 restricts two medically important flaviviruses, yellow fever virus (YFV) and dengue virus serotype 2 (DENV2), and a human coronavirus, HCoV-OC43, but not encephalomyocarditis virus, a picornavirus. Further, we show that TRIM56-mediated inhibition of HCoV-OC43 multiplication depends solely on its E3 ligase activity, whereas its restriction of YFV and DENV2 requires both the E3 ligase activity and integrity of the C-terminal portion. The differing molecular determinants appear to accommodate distinct antiviral mechanisms TRIM56 adopts to target different families of viruses; while TRIM56 curbs intracellular YFV/DENV2 RNA replication, it acts at a later step in HCoV-OC43 life cycle. These novel findings illuminate the molecular basis of the versatility and specificity of TRIM56's antiviral activities against positive-strand RNA viruses.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>