<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-09-12</DATELINE><TITLE>Interplay between the Poly(A) Tail, Poly(A)-Binding Protein, and Coronavirus Nucleocapsid Protein Regulates Gene Expression of Coronavirus and the Host Cell</TITLE><BODY>In the present study, we investigated the roles of interactions among the poly(A) tail, coronavirus nucleocapsid (N) protein, and poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) in the regulation of coronavirus gene expression. Through dissociation constant (K(d)) comparison, we found that the coronavirus N protein can bind to the poly(A) tail with high affinity, establishing N protein as a PABP. A subsequent analysis with UV cross-linking and immunoprecipitation revealed that the N protein is able to bind to the poly(A) tail in infected cells. Further examination demonstrated that poly(A) tail binding by the N protein negatively regulates translation of coronaviral RNA and host mRNA both in vitro and in cells. Although the N protein can interact with PABP and eukaryotic initiation factor 4G (eIF4G), the poor interaction efficiency between the poly(A)-bound N protein and eIF4E may explain the observed decreased translation efficiency. In addition to interaction with translation factor eIF4G, the N protein is able to interact with coronavirus nonstructural protein 9 (nsp9), a replicase protein required for replication. The study demonstrates interactions among the poly(A) tail, N protein, and PABP both in vitro and in infected cells. Of the interactions, binding of the poly(A) tail to N protein decreases the interaction efficiency between the poly(A) tail and eIF4E, leading to translation inhibition. The poly(A)-dependent translation inhibition by N protein has not been previously demonstrated and thus extends our understanding of coronavirus gene expression. IMPORTANCE Gene expression in coronavirus is a complicated and dynamic process. In this study, we demonstrated that coronavirus N protein is able to bind to the poly(A) tail with high affinity, establishing N protein as a PABP. We also show how the interplay between coronavirus 3′ poly(A) tail, PABP, and N protein regulates gene expression of the coronavirus and host cell. Of the interactions, poly(A) tail binding by the N protein negatively regulates translation, and to our knowledge, this inhibition of translation by binding of the N protein to poly(A) tail has not been previously studied. Accordingly, the study provides fundamental molecular details regarding coronavirus infection and expands our knowledge of coronavirus gene expression.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>