<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2010-07-15</DATELINE><TITLE>Lycorine sensitizes CD40 ligand-protected chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells to bezafibrate- and medroxyprogesterone acetate-induced apoptosis but dasatanib does not overcome reported CD40-mediated drug resistance</TITLE><BODY>BACKGROUND: Tumor cells in chronic lymphocytic leukemia accumulate in the periphery through the proliferation of a minority of cells in lymph nodes. The proliferative and survival signals in these proliferation centers include interactions with T lymphocytes expressing CD40 ligand. We have demonstrated that the low toxicity combination of bezafibrate and medroxyprogesterone acetate induces mitochondrial superoxide-mediated apoptosis of non-CD40-liganded cells but not of cells exposed to CD40 ligand. Here, we assessed the ability of dasatinib and lycorine to restore bezafibrate- and medroxyprogesterone acetate- induced apoptosis in cells exposed to CD40 ligand. In parallel experiments we compared the ability of dasatinib to induce apoptosis of cells co-treated with fludarabine. DESIGN AND METHODS: Primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia and peripheral blood mononuclear cells were exposed to drug combinations for 72 hours on control and CD40 ligand-expressing fibroblast monolayers. Cells were harvested and analyzed for apoptosis and levels of mitochondrial superoxide using flow cytometry. In some experiments cells were removed from CD40 ligand at 48 hours, retreated and analyzed after a further 24 hours. The effect of CD40 ligand and drug treatments on mitochondrial superoxide levels were assessed. RESULTS: As previously described, dasatinib rendered cells sensitive to fludarabine but only when CD40 ligand was removed for the last 24 hours of culture. In contrast, lycorine restored the bezafibrate- and medroxyprogesterone acetate-induced apoptosis associated with mitochondrial superoxide even during continuous exposure to CD40 ligand. Furthermore, combined bezafibrate, medroxyprogesterone acetate and lycorine had little effect against normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells, whereas dasatinib with fludarabine induced high levels of apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate the potential of bezafibrate, medroxyprogesterone acetate and lycorine as novel therapy in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and have important implications for the reported potential of c-abl kinase inhibitors in this disease.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>