Immunohistochemical profile of endometrial adenocarcinoma: a study of 61 cases and review of the literature. The differences in immunohistochemical expression of p53, bcl-2, bax, estrogen receptor (ER), and progesterone receptor (PR) were evaluated in 40 endometrioid and 21 papillary serous carcinomas of endometrium and correlated with known predictors of survival, such as grade and stage. Uterine papillary serous adenocarcinomas (UPSA) showed significantly higher p53 expression than did uterine endometrioid adenocarcinomas (UEA) (76.2% versus 35%), whereas both ER and PR were more often positive in endometrioid than in serous tumors (p = .005 and .0005). No significant difference was found in bcl-2 and bax expression between both histologic types. However, there was definite decrease in intensity of bcl-2 in UPSA compared with UEA. In endometrioid carcinoma, p53 overexpression was associated with high-grade and advanced-stage tumors (p = .0006 and .006), whereas ER and PR expression was associated with low-grade and early-stage tumors (p = .0006 and .0001 p = .003 and .0006). Bcl-2 immunopositivity was more common in low-grade, early-stage rather than in high-grade, advanced-stage adenocarcinomas, but the difference was not statistically significant (p = .24 and .07). Bax immunopositivity was associated with well-differentiated (p = .04) and early-stage tumors. Furthermore, a significant inverse relationship between bax and p53 reactivity was defined (p = .05), especially in tumors of endometrioid type. Bax and PR immunoexpression correlated near the limit of statistical significance (p = .08), whereas no relationship was found among bax, bcl-2, and ER immunopositivity. Our results indicate that the differences in immunohistochemical profiles of endometrioid and serous carcinomas support the existence of different molecular pathways of their development. The correlation of immunohistochemical findings with histologic grade and clinical stage could help in predicting biologic behavior and planning treatment in patients who are diagnosed as having these tumors.