Does transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy render standard diagnostic laparoscopy obsolete for unexplained infertility investigation? To evaluate the feasability of transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy in infertile patients undergoing basic infertility investigations, and to determine its usefulness in comparison with standard laparoscopy.Twenty-three unexplained infertile women were prospectively included. Selected patients had no history of pelvic disease or previous pelvic surgery and had normal findings on gynecological examination and vaginal sonography. The patients received general anesthesia and underwent the transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy immediately prior to a standard laparoscopy by a different operator. The main outcome measures were the rate of successful access to the pouch of Douglas, the duration of the procedure, and the rate of complications. In order to compare the accuracy of the transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy to the standard laparoscopy, findings in terms of tubal pathology, endometriosis, and adhesions were analyzed.The successful rate of access to the pouch of Douglas was 95.7%. The rate of complications was 4.3%. The mean duration of the transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy procedure was 8 min. The concordance between transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy and laparoscopy for pelvic cavity examination was statistically significant (k=0.57, P=0.02). In 40.9% of cases, the transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy procedure has shown a normal pelvic examination confirmed by laparoscopic diagnosis. According to the findings by laparoscopy, transvaginal hydrolaparoscopic diagnosis was correlated well in 81.8% of cases. When transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy showed pathological findings, there were no normal laparoscopies. Pathological laparoscopies were found in 18.2% of the normal transvaginal hydrolaparoscopies.The transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy is a reproducible and safe method to investigate the pelvis and its structures. The diagnostic accuracy of the transvaginal hydrolaparoscopy suggests that more than 40% of standard laparoscopies for unexplained infertility could be avoided.