Relative expression of progesterone receptors A and B in endometrioid cancers of the endometrium. The nuclear receptor for the female hormone progesterone (PR) is widely expressed in uterine cancer. PR is expressed as two proteins (PRA and PRB) with different functions, and in vitro evidence reveals PRA to inhibit PRB function, so the cellular ratio of PRA:PRB is likely to be an important determinant of progesterone action. The relative expression of PRA and B and their involvement in the pathogenesis of endometrial cancer is not known. The aims of this study were to determine PRA and B expression by dual immunofluorescent histochemistry in endometrial adenocarcinomas compared with expression in normal and hyperplastic glands, and to correlate expression in tumors with clinical features including grade. Significantly lower PR levels were found in tumors compared with normal glands and areas of complex atypical hyperplasia within the same specimen. The normal glands expressed both of the isoforms at similar levels, whereas there was increased predominance of one isoform in hyperplastic areas and in tumors, which suggested that the loss of coordinated expression of PR isoforms was an early event in tumor progression. The majority of tumors [27 (58%) of 46] expressed only one PR isoform, and the proportion expressing either PRA or B was the same [14 (30%) of 46, and 13 (28%) of 46, respectively]. One-half of all tumors ([23 (50%) of 46] expressed either PRA only or a predominance of PRA, and a few tumors [10 (22%) of 46] expressed comparable levels of PRA and B. Similar levels of PRA and B were noted only in FIGO grade 1 tumors, whereas higher grades (2 and 3) were associated with a predominance of one isoform. In summary, expression of only one PR isoform was common in endometrial cancers, which indicates that the decreased PR levels observed in these cancers arise from the loss of one PR isoform. Expression of a single PR isoform was associated with higher clinical grade, which suggests a relationship between the loss of PR isoform expression and features of poorer prognosis. Disruption of relative PR isoform expression was observed in complex atypical hyperplasia, which suggests that early alterations in the ratio of PRA:PRB may precede and/or be implicated in the development of endometrial adenocarcinoma. Alterations in the ratio of PR isoform expression are likely to cause disordered regulation of target genes, resulting in altered progestin action in the uterus, and this may be involved in the pathogenesis of endometrial cancer.