Effect of combined surgical and pharmacologic treatment on peripheral blood cytokine concentrations in women with endometriosis. Endometriosis is a disease causing the growth of endometrial tissue outside its proper localisation. The frequency of this disease occurrence is estimated for about 10% of women at reproductive age. More and more often scientific studies reveal the key role of immunological disorders as the factor contributing to the development of endometriosis. Investigators pay their attention not only on the composition of immunological cells, but on the amount and proportion of their products, including cytokines, as well. Aim of the study was the evaluation of cytokine generation by peripheral blood lymphocytes derived from women with endometriosis, as well as the estimation of combined surgical and pharmacological treatment influence on this production.The study group consisted of 72 patients treated in Surgical Gynecology Department of Polish Mother Health Centre Research Institute in Lodz, in years 1998-2002. Endometriosis was diagnosed during laparoscopy or laparotomy in 60 of them. The diagnosis was confirmed in histopathological examination. 14 of those patients were qualified to 6 months long Zoladex therapy (AstraZeneca), following the operation. Zoladex was used in a dose of 3.6 mg per month. Evaluation of the cytokine generation was performed before the treatment and repeated after the full therapy. 12 women with no signs of endometriosis lesions existence were the comparison group. Immunofluorescence method ELISA and ENDOGEN commercial kits were used for evaluating the cytokine concentration levels.Significant decrease in IFN-gamma generation (p < 0.05) by peripheral blood lymphocytes was noted in women with endometriosis before the treatment as compared to women without this disease. Therapy caused its increase and the difference was statistically significant. Significantly higher levels of the IL-4 generation after PHA stimulation were also observed in women with endometriosis then in women from the comparative group. The therapy of endometriosis caused the decrease in IL-4 production, but the differences were not statistically significant (p < 0.05). Significant differences in IL-4 generation after the treatment as compared to the values noted before the treatment were observed only after using conkanavaline A as the lymphocyte stimulator. Generation levels of IL-2, IL-10 and IL-12 did not vary significantly after the combined surgical and pharmacological treatment of endometriosis.1. Significant decrease in IFN-gamma concentration was shown in patients with endometriosis, which proves the role of this cytokine in the pathogenesis of this disease. 2. Combined surgical and pharmacological treatment causes the increase in IFN-gamma production by peripheral blood lymphocytes.