Analysis of the codon 72 polymorphism of the TP53 gene in patients with endometriosis. Endometriosis is a benign gynaecologic disease that is associated with a certain risk for malignant degeneration. The disease has a genetic background, but the locations of possible genomic aberrations are still poorly clarified. In this context, the proline form of TP53 codon 72 polymorphism has been recently associated with the risk of developing endometriosis. In this case-control study, we aimed to investigate further the potential association between endometriosis and this polymorphism in order to evaluate whether this genetic variant may influence the susceptibility to the disease. Genomic DNA was obtained from a consecutive series of 303 Italian Caucasian women of reproductive age who underwent laparoscopy for benign gynaecological pathologies. Endometriosis was defined according to the criteria of Holt and Weiss [Holt V and Weiss NS (2000) Recommendations for the design of epidemiologic studies of endometriosis. Epidemiol 11,654-659] for the definite disease. Subjects of similar age without laparoscopic evidence of the disease served as control group. Molecular analysis of TP53 codon 72 polymorphism was performed by PCR amplification. Endometriosis was documented in 151 women. We found no statistically significant difference in the distribution of TP53 codon 72 polymorphism genotypes between patients with and without endometriosis. The respective proportions of arginine homozygotes, heterozygotes and proline homozygotes were 55.6, 39.7 and 4.6% in the group with endometriosis and 59.9, 30.9 and 9.2% in the control group. Moreover, no statistically significant association was demonstrated between TP53 codon 72 polymorphism and the various clinical manifestations of the disease, although a non-significant tendency towards an increased frequency of the proline allele was observed in association with specific manifestations of the disease reflecting a more severe form. Our results suggest that the TP53 codon 72 polymorphism does not confer genetic susceptibility to endometriosis in the Italian population. However, a possible susceptibility role of this polymorphism in endometriosis development towards very severe forms cannot be ruled out.