A conditional mouse model for human MUC1-positive endometriosis shows the presence of anti-MUC1 antibodies and Foxp3+ regulatory T cells. Endometriosis is defined by the presence of tissue implants resembling endometrial glands outside of the uterus, at ectopic sites, frequently on the ovarian surface. The ectopic lesions are often invasive, resistant to therapy, and may predispose to endometrioid and clear cell ovarian tumors. The complex mechanisms leading to chronic endometriosis are mediated partly by impaired immune surveillance in the host. Although innate immunity has been addressed previously, the response of adaptive immune effectors to specific antigens has not been characterized, mostly because very few endometriosis antigens have been defined to date. We postulated that the mucin 1 (MUC1) glycoprotein, which is normally present on eutopic human endometrial glands and overexpressed in endometrioid and clear cell ovarian tumors, is also present in ectopic lesions of ovarian endometriosis. Furthermore, changes in MUC1 expression in endometriosis could promote adaptive anti-MUC1 immunity that might play a role in the malignant progression. To test our hypothesis, we crossed MUC1 transgenic mice, which express human MUC1 under the endogenous promoter, with the loxP-Stop-loxP-Kras(G12D/+) (Kras) mice, in which endometriosis can be induced through Cre-loxP recombination. The double transgenic MUC1Kras mice develop benign, MUC1-positive ovarian lesions, closely resembling human endometriosis. Subsequent to disease induction, the mice generate high titers of IgM and IgG antibodies that are specific for MUC1. Antibodies appear early in disease and the predominance of the IgG1 subclass suggests Th2-driven immunity. Immune phenotyping revealed an accumulation of Foxp3+ CD4 regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the draining lymph nodes at late-stage disease. Furthermore, our observations in human endometriosis showed a similar recruitment of FOXP3+ CD4 T cells. Overall, our results reveal a Th2/Treg-dominant natural immunity in endometriosis with potential implications for cancer progression.