Beneficial effects of the Chinese herbal medicine Sanjie Zhentong Capsule on experimental endometriosis in rats. To analyze the composition of the Chinese herbal medicine Sanjie Zhentong Capsule (SJZTC) and test the therapeutic efficacy of each component in a rat model of endometriosis.A rapid resolution liquid chromatography (RRLC) method coupled with electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (Q-TOF MS) has been developed for the analysis of SJZTC. Two main ingredients, Drac(h)onis sanguis and saponin, were tested in the endometriosis model. Sixty Lewis female rats were in the estrous cycle stage when endometriosis was experimentally initiated by peritoneal implantation of endometrial tissue. Four weeks later, a second laparotomy was performed and implant volumes were measured. After that, the implanted rats were randomized into five study groups: control group (treatment with saline), anastrozole group (treatment with anastrole, 18 μg per day), loureirin A group (treated with loureirin A, 97.2 mg), ginsenoside Re group (treated with ginsenoside Re, 64.8 mg), and SJZTC groups (treated with SJZTC, 86.4 mg) administered once a day for 4 weeks via gastric gavage. After four weeks of treatment, a third laparotomy was performed, implant volumes were re-measured, and the levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) were tested.A total of 38 compounds including, both the target and unknown compounds, were rapidly predicted in the capsule extract by the developed method. Compared with the control group, the anastrozole group, loureirin A group, ginsenoside Re group, and SJZTC treated group showed smaller implant volumes, as well as lower levels of VEGF and TNF-α in the peritoneal focus (P < 0.01 for all comparisons). Furthermore, parameters in the groups treated with SJZTC, loureirin A and ginsenoside Re were significantly better than the control group and the anastrozole group. These results indicate that SJZTC and its two main components are effective in reducing the development of endometriosis.