RU 486: an alternative to surgical abortion. After 5 years of use in more than 100,000 European women, RU 486, an antiprogestin medication used as a medical abortifacient, has recently come under scrutiny in the United States. This article discusses the current and potential uses of RU 486. Also addressed are the history, advantages, and disadvantages of medical abortion (including the acceptability of the method from a woman-centered perspective) new clinical trialsDespite initial controversy, RU-486 has been used by more than 100,000 European women since 1988 to induce abortion.  In July 1992, debate over the drug was initiated in the US when a supply intended for the personal use of a pregnant woman was confiscated at Customs.  The drug's developer, Roussal-Uclaf refused to license RU-486 in the US until President Clinton ordered his administration to promote the testing, licensing, and manufacture of RU-486.  Now the US Population Council holds the US license.  RU-486 works by preventing implantation and blocking progesterone receptors in the endometrium.  When used alone, it has a 65-95% effectiveness rate which is improved to 95% when used in combination with a prostaglandin.  As well as being effective in ending early pregnancy, RU-486 holds promise in the treatment of Cushing's syndrome, of estrogen-dependent carcinomas of the breast and endometrium, of open angle glaucoma, hepatoma, meningioma, known fetal demise, endometriosis, and for postcoital contraception.  It does not disrupt ectopic pregnancies.  Patients must be educated to decide whether to undergo a surgical or medical abortion using RU-486.  This education must include information on the physical effects and possible adverse effects of each procedure.  In general, patients who have undergone medical abortion have been satisfied with their decisions, in part, because they have control over some aspects of their care and because the medical abortion is noninvasive.  Clinical trials to determine the ratio of risks to benefits with RU-486 began in the US in mid-1994 and will address patient compliance with return visits among other issues.  While the debate over abortion continues, it is well to remember that once a woman has decided to have an abortion, the only remaining issue is which method will she choose.