RU 486, mifepristone: a review of a controversial drug. RU 486 (mifepristone), commonly referred to as the French abortion pill, has received much attention in the popular media. Much of this information has clouded the facts, and has been shrouded by controversy. Political, religious, and personal bias have slanted the presentation of the potential uses of this drug. Health care practitioners must be able to provide clients with the most accurate and factual information available. This article details the physiological effects of RU 486, as well as research data regarding uses and side effects. RU 486's most well publicized use, and efficacy, as an abortifacient are discussed in detail.Use of RU-486 to induce medical abortions has generated vocal controversy on the part of right-to-life groups.  The drug, however, has other important uses.  A synthetic steroid that interacts with progesterone receptors and acts as a progesterone antagonist, RU-486 also binds to glucocorticoid receptors and exhibits potent antagonistic activity.  It facilitates abortion by binding to the progesterone receptor sites in the endometrium leading to necrosis of the endometrial decidua and causing expulsion of the embryo.  First trimester abortion success rates with RU-486 range from 60-85% and increase to 95% when a small dose of prostaglandin analog is also administered.  RU-486 has also been used to reduce pain in patients with pelvic endometriosis.  In vitro studies have shown that RU-486 inhibits the growth of progesterone receptor positive breast cancer cells.  Also, meningiomas have responded to RU-486 treatment, the drug has been used to improve symptoms of Cushing's syndrome in a 25-year-old man, and it inhibits human papillomavirus (HPV)-induced oncogenesis, making it a prophylactic treatment option to prevent cervical cancer in HPV patients.  Use of RU-486 to induce abortion should be preceded by proper counseling which includes offering other treatment options and assessing a patient's ability to comply with the regimen.  Anti-abortion groups successfully blocked the availability of RU-486 in the US until President Clinton instructed his administration to promote the testing, licensing, and manufacture of the drug.  This led the French pharmaceutical company which holds the patent on the drug to license it to the nonprofit Population Council in New York.  RU-486 may become most important in developing countries where access to surgical abortions is scarce.  It should be included among the choices presented to clients.