Treatment of adenomyosis-associated menorrhagia with a levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine device. To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of treatment with a levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine device (IUD) in women affected by adenomyosis-associated menorrhagia.Tertiary care center.Prospective, open, noncomparative study.Twenty-five women aged 38 to 45 years with recurrent menorrhagia associated with adenomyosis diagnosed at transvaginal ultrasonography participated in this study.An IUD releasing levonorgestel 20 mcg/day was inserted in each patient within 7 days of the start of menstrual flow. All of the patients were requested to compile a pictorial blood loss assessment chart each month. They underwent clinical and transvaginal ultrasound examinations 3, 6, and 12 months after IUD insertion.Menstrual pattern serum hemoglobin, ferritin, and iron level changes.One patient experienced IUD expulsion 2 months after device insertion and another requested removal of the IUD 4 months after insertion because of persistent irregular blood loss. Six months after IUD insertion, amenorrhea was observed in 2 patients and oligomenorrhea in another, spotting occurred occasionally in 7, and 13 had scanty but regular flow. One year of follow-up has been completed by the remaining 23 women: 2 with amenorrhea, 3 with oligomenorrhea, 2 with spotting, and 16 with regular flows. Significant increases in hemoglobin, hematocrit, and serum ferritin have been observed, but the lipid metabolism and clotting variables have remained unchanged.Our findings indicate that marked and safe relief from adenomyosis-associated menorrhagia can be obtained with the use of a levonorgestrel-releasing IUD.The efficacy and tolerability of treatment of adenomyosis-related menorrhagia with a levonorgestrel-releasing IUD were investigated in a prospective study of 25 women recruited from a tertiary care center in Italy.  All women reported recurrent menorrhagia of at least 6 months' duration and underwent abdominal and transvaginal ultrasonography, hysteroscopy, and endometrial biopsy before study entry.  An IUD releasing 20 mcg/day of levonorgestrel was inserted within 7 days of the onset of menses and follow-up examinations were conducted 3, 6, and 12 months after insertion.  1 woman experienced IUD expulsion 2 months after insertion and another requested removal at 4 months because of persistent irregular blood loss.  6 months after IUD insertion, amenorrhea was observed in 2 women, oligomenorrhea in 1 woman, and occasional spotting in 7 women the remaining 13 women had scanty but regular periods.  At 12 months, 2 women reported amenorrhea, 3 had oligomenorrhea, 2 had spotting, and 16 had regular periods.  All menstrual anomalies were well tolerated.  IUD-related side effects included headache (24%), breast tenderness (16%), seborrhea or acne (24%), and weight gain (28%).  Significant increases in hemoglobin, hematocrit, and serum ferritin were recorded