Gastrointestinal and segmental colonic transit times in patients with acute and chronic spinal cord lesions. Longitudinal study among patients with acute and chronic spinal cord injuries (SCI).To compare total gastrointestinal transit times (GITT) and segmental colorectal transit times (CTT) in SCI patients with acute and chronic lesions to those of healthy volunteers. Furthermore, to examine the impact of time elapsed since injury on GITT and CTT, and finally to compare the pattern of colorectal dysfunction in patients with supraconal versus conal/cauda equina lesions.Surgical Research Unit and Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital of Aarhus, Denmark.Patients took 10 radioopaque markers on six consecutive days and an abdominal X-ray was taken on day 7. GITT and CTTs were computed from the number of markers in the entire colorectum and in each colorectal segment respectively. We studied 26 patients with acute spinal cord lesions (15 supraconal and 11 conal/cauda equina lesions time since injury=11 - 24 days) and 18 patients were available for follow-up 6 - 14 months later. Results were compared to 24 healthy volunteers.In patients with acute supraconal or conal/cauda equina lesions GITT and CTTs of the ascending, transverse, and descending colon were significantly prolonged, but rectosigmoid transit time was only significantly prolonged in patients with conal/cauda equina lesions. In patients with chronic supraconal lesions GITT and CTTs of the transverse colon and the descending colon were significantly prolonged. In patients with chronic conal/cauda equina lesions GITT and CTT of the transverse, the descending colon and the rectosigmoid were significantly prolonged. Thus, supraconal SCI resulted in generalized colonic dysfunction whereas chronic conal/cauda equina lesions resulted in severe rectosigmoid dysfunction.SCI results in severely prolonged colonic transit times both in the acute and chronic phase. However, the type of colorectal dysfunction depends on the level of SCI.