Adults with pediatric-onset spinal cord injury: part 1: prevalence of medical complications. To determine the prevalence of medical complications of adults with pediatric-onset spinal cord injury (SCI) and their association with demographic, impairment, and functional limitation factors.Structured interview including standardized measures.Individuals who sustained spinal cord injuries at age 18 years or younger and were 24 years of age or older at interview.Prevalence of medical complications: Urinary tract infections (UTI) requiring intravenous antibiotics or hospitalization (severe UTI), pressure ulcers, hemorrhoids and rectal bleeding, chronic medical conditions, and hospitalizations in the past 3 years. Urinary stones, orchitis or epididymitis, pneumonia, ventilatory assistance, thromboembolism, and latex allergy since injury. Current experience with UTI, bladder and bowel incontinence, bowel program length, constipation or diarrhea, dysreflexia, and hyperhidrosis.Two hundred sixteen individuals were interviewed, with a mean age of injury of 14 years and a mean age at follow-up of 29 years. Most commonly experienced complications were UTI (74%), bowel incontinence (63%), pressure ulcers (44%), autonomic dysreflexia (42%), and respiratory complications (33%). Pressure ulcers were more common in men and latex allergy more common in women. Age at injury was not associated with any of the complications. Older age at interview was associated with orchitis or epididymitis, bowel incontinence, respiratory complications, thromboembolism, and chronic medical conditions longer duration of injury was associated with these same complications, except for bowel incontinence. Greater neurologic impairment was related to UTI, severe UTI, stones, bowel incontinence, respiratory complications, autonomic dysreflexia, hyperhidrosis, latex allergy, and pressure ulcers. With the exception of latex allergy and UTI, Functional Independence Measure (FIM) scores were associated with the same factors as neurologic impairment.Medical complications are common sequelae for adults with pediatric-onset SCI. Demographic, impairment, and functional limitation factors are associated with these complications and can be used to identify at-risk individuals.