Results of C1-C2 transarticular screw fixation in a series of 20 patients. C1-C2 transarticular fixation is an increasingly used surgical method of treating atlantoaxial instability. When properly performed, it can safely provide fusion rates near 100%, but techniques of fixation in this region allow only a small margin of error. We here report the results of C1-C2 transarticular fixation in a series of 20 patients in which different procedures were selected according to the presenting disorder in each case.The study group included 9 men and 11 women with a mean age of 48 years (range 17 to 68 years). The causes of instabilities were rheumatoid arthritis in nine patients, type II and III Hangman's fracture of traumatic origin in nine (in association with other lesions in three cases), pseudoarthrosis after type II odontoid fracture in one, and type III complex C1 fracture in a patient with ankylosing spondylitis. Preoperative assessment included flexion and extension plain radiographs and computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. Operations included transarticular screw fixation in all cases in patients with rheumatoid arthritis it was associated with sublaminar fixation and bone grafting following Sonntag's technique in all but two cases. Postoperative results were evaluated in relation to the biomechanical stability and fusion was studied by flexion and extension radiographs and CT scans. Pain relief in patients with rheumatoid arthritis patients was assessed using a 0-10 visual analogic scale (V.A.S.).In the traumatic group, a consolidation of the fracture and radiologic stability was achieved in all cases. In patients with rheumatoid arthritis, pain improved in all but not the neurological deficit, and in all cases a C1-C2 biomechanical stability was reached despite interlaminar graft resorption in two (25%) cases. With respect to complications, a lesion of the vertebral artery occurred in one case, deviation of the screw in two cases, and breakage of the screw without clinical repercussion in two other cases.C1-C2 transarticular screw fixation was a useful technique to achieve satisfacory biomechanical stability in patients with atlatoaxial instability of both inflammatory and traumatic origin with a low rate of complications.