Spinal fractures in multiply injured patients: an analysis of the German Trauma Society's Trauma Register. Spinal trauma is frequently found in multiply injured patients. To gain more insight into the epidemiology and the clinical course of this entity, we analyzed the relevant data held in the German Trauma Registry (German Trauma Society, DGU). The Registry provides prospective, standardized and anonymous documentation on severely injured patients at different predetermined time points from the site of the accident until they are discharged from hospital.Out of 8,057 patients whose details are recorded in the German Trauma Registry, 772 (approximately 10%) with severe spine trauma (AIS>/=3) patients were identified. Far more men (72%) than women (28%) had such spinal injuries. The mean age of the patients with severe spine injury was 37+/-17 years their mean Injury Severity Score (ISS) was 29+/-15 (range 9-75) points.The age group 15-54 years was the largest (80%). Motor vehicle accidents (MVA) were the most frequent cause of severe spine trauma (49%), followed by falls from a great height (20%). About half of all severe spine injuries were not suspected in the prehospital setting. Symptoms of incomplete paraplegia were found in 20% of the patients and symptoms of complete paraplegia, in 27%. Patients with injuries to the thoracic spine more often had a lengthy average stay in the intensive care unit, because they were accompanied by thoracic trauma significantly more often than were injuries to the other spinal segments (96% vs 37%). Patients who underwent spinal surgery at an early stage (70% operated on <72 h after their injuries were sustained) showed a tendency to shorter periods ventilatory support and did not remain in the intensive care unit or indeed in the hospital as long as the other patients. Seventy-eight percent of the patients had survived for 90 days after sustaining their injuries.Almost 10% of all documented cases of patients with severe injuries in the German Trauma Registry had severe spinal injuries. These injuries were frequently not recognized or their extent underestimated in the preclinical setting. About 70% underwent spine stabilization within 72 h after being injured. These results support previous findings suggesting that early stabilization of vertebral fractures might be beneficial in multiply injured patients.