<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-06-19</DATELINE><TITLE>Social Media and the Dissemination of Prepublication Data in Surgical Fields</TITLE><BODY>BACKGROUND: This review investigates the use of social media at surgical conferences and possible effects of prepublication data release in surgical fields. Potential risks include patient harm by the preliminary application of research that lacks sufficient peer review, infringements on intellectual property, and loss of “research novelty.” METHODS: A literature review of the current use of social media in dispersion of prepublication data was performed. Current submission guidelines for surgical conferences and journals were analyzed for data release embargos and social media use policies. RESULTS: Conference abstract guidelines mentioned data embargos half of the time and the use of social media less than one third of the time. Eighty percentage of journal instructions to authors contained guidelines on both. CONCLUSIONS: In nonsurgical fields, the appropriateness of the use of social media to release prepublication data is increasingly being discussed. Little guidance exists on how surgical conference attendees should use social media while at conferences. Given the potential for patient harm and negative impact on intellectual property and attribution, further discussion is warranted. INTRODUCCIÓN: Esta crítica investiga el uso de las redes sociales en las conferencias quirúrgicas y los efectos posibles de los datos pre-publicados en cirugía. Los riesgos probables incluyen: daño al paciente causado por la aplicación prematura de las investigaciones sin bastante análisis, violación de la propiedad intelectual, y perdido de “novedad de investigación.” METODOLOGÍA: Un repaso fue hecho sobre el rol de las redes sociales en la propagación de los datos pre-publicados. Las normas actuales para la entrega de las conferencias y los periódicos quirúrgicos claves fueron analizadas por las reglas gobernando el uso de las redes sociales y los embargos del lanzamiento de datos. RESULTADOS: Las reglas generales sobre la entrega de abstractos para las conferencias mencionaron los embargos de datos la mitad del tiempo mientras que estas mismas reglas mencionaron el uso de las redes sociales menos que un tercio el tiempo. 80% de las instrucciones de los periódicos dirigidas a los autores tuvieron las reglas generales sobre los dos: los embargos de datas y las redes sociales. CONCLUSIONES: En las especialidades non-quirúrgicas, la pertinencia del uso de las redes sociales para lanzar el dato pre-publicado es discutida con más frecuencia. No existen normas sobre cómo se usan las redes sociales durante las conferencias. Dado el daño potencial al paciente y el impacto negativo en la propiedad y la atribución intelectuales, más discusión está obligatoria.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>