<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-05-15</DATELINE><TITLE>Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus nsp11 Antagonizes Type I Interferon Signaling by Targeting IRF9</TITLE><BODY>Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) is an arterivirus from the Nidovirales order that causes reproductive failure and respiratory disease in pigs and poses a constant threat to the global pig industry. The PRRSV-encoded nonstructural protein 11 (nsp11) is a nidovirus-specific endoribonuclease (NendoU) that is conserved throughout the Arteriviridae and Coronaviridae families. Previously, our research and that of others demonstrated that PRRSV nsp11 inhibits type I interferon (IFN) production through NendoU activity-dependent mechanisms. Here, we found that PRRSV nsp11 also inhibited IFN-stimulated response element (ISRE) promoter activity and subsequent transcription of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs). Detailed analysis showed that nsp11 targeted interferon regulatory factor 9 (IRF9), but not transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) or STAT2, key molecules in the type I IFN signaling pathway. Furthermore, the nsp11-IRF9 interaction impaired the formation and nuclear translocation of the transcription factor complex IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3) in both nsp11-overexpressed and PRRSV-infected cells. Importantly, nsp11 mutations (H129A, H144A, and K173A) that ablate NendoU activity or its cell cytotoxicity also interacted with IRF9 and retained the ability to block IFN signaling, indicating that the nsp11-IRF9 interaction is independent of NendoU activity or cell cytotoxicity of nsp11. Taking the results together, our study demonstrated that PRRSV nsp11 antagonizes type I IFN signaling by targeting IRF9 via a NendoU activity-independent mechanism, and this report describes a novel strategy evolved by PRRSV to counteract host innate antiviral responses, revealing a potential new function for PRRSV nsp11 in type I IFN signaling. IMPORTANCE The nidovirus-specific endoribonuclease (NendoU) encoded by PRRSV nonstructural protein 11 (nsp11) is a unique NendoU of nidoviruses that infect vertebrates; thus, it is an attractive target for the development of antinidovirus drugs. Previous studies have revealed that the NendoU of nidoviruses, including porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) and human coronavirus 229E (HCoV-229E), acts as a type I interferon (IFN) antagonist. Here, for the first time, we demonstrated that overexpression of PRRSV nsp11 also inhibits IFN signaling by targeting the C-terminal interferon regulatory factor (IRF) association domain of IRF9. This interaction impaired the ability of IRF9 to form the transcription factor complex IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3) and to act as a signaling protein of IFN signaling. Collectively, our data identify IRF9 as a natural target of PRRSV NendoU and reveal a novel mechanism evolved by an arterivirus to counteract innate immune signaling.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>