<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-07-08</DATELINE><TITLE>Microarray analysis of infectious bronchitis virus infection of chicken primary dendritic cells</TITLE><BODY>BACKGROUND: Avian infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) is a major respiratory disease-causing agent in birds that leads to significant losses. Dendritic cells (DCs) are specialised cells responsible for sampling antigens and presenting them to T cells, which also play an essential role in recognising and neutralising viruses. Recent studies have suggested that non-coding RNAs may regulate the functional program of DCs. Expression of host non-coding RNAs changes markedly during infectious bronchitis virus infection, but their role in regulating host immune function has not been explored. Here, microarrays of mRNAs, miRNAs, and lncRNAs were globally performed to analyse how avian DCs respond to IBV. RESULTS: First, we found that IBV stimulation did not enhance the maturation ability of avian DCs. Interestingly, inactivated IBV was better able than IBV to induce DC maturation and activate lymphocytes. We identified 1093 up-regulated and 845 down-regulated mRNAs in IBV-infected avian DCs. Gene Ontology analysis suggested that cellular macromolecule and protein location (GO-BP) and transcription factor binding (GO-MF) were abundant in IBV-stimulated avian DCs. Meanwhile, pathway analysis indicated that the oxidative phosphorylation and leukocyte transendothelial migration signalling pathways might be activated in the IBV group. Moreover, alteration of microRNAs (miRNAs) and long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) was detected in IBV-stimulated avian DCs. In total, 19 significantly altered (7 up and 12 down) miRNAs and 101 (75 up and 26 down) lncRNAs were identified in the IBV-treated group. Further analysis showed that the actin cytoskeleton and MAPK signal pathway were related to the target genes of IBV-stimulated miRNAs. Finally, our study identified 2 TF-microRNA and 53 TF–microRNA–mRNA interactions involving 1 TF, 2 miRNAs, and 53 mRNAs in IBV-stimulated avian DCs. CONCLUSIONS: Our research suggests a new mechanism to explain why IBV actively blocks innate responses needed for inducing immune gene expression and also provides insight into the pathogenic mechanisms of avian IBV. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1186/s12864-019-5940-6) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>