Complications of exercise and pharmacologic stress tests: differences in younger and elderly patients. Age characteristics of patients undergoing various types of stress tests are important because of differences in clinical background and exercise performance between the young and elderly. Adverse effects of pharmacologic agents are known to be more common in the elderly, who are less able to perform vigorous exercise stress testing. We investigated the clinical background, performance characteristics, and complication rate of various stress tests in younger (<75 years old) and elderly (>75 years old) patient populations.A total of 3412 patients (2796 younger, 616 elderly) underwent 5 types of stress tests with (1) technetium-99m sestamibi (MIBI) single photon emission computed tomography: symptom-limited exercise (Ex, 1598 younger, 173 elderly), (2) dipyridamole infusion (0.14 mg/kg/min, 4 minutes) without exercise (D, 260 younger, 114 elderly), (3) with exercise (DEx, 339 younger, 112 elderly), (4) adenosine infusion (0.14 mg/kg/min, 5 minutes) without exercise (A, 253 younger, 101 elderly), and (5) with exercise (AEx, 346 younger, 116 elderly).Sixty-seven percent of patients in the younger population were able to achieve 85% of the maximum predicted heart rate, whereas 54% of the elderly reached this level of exercise. No patient had life-threatening complications. In both the younger and elderly groups, chest discomfort, feelings of impending syncope, flushing, and fall in blood pressure occurred less frequently in DEx than D and in AEx than A. Sinus bradycardia occurred less frequently in AEx than A in the younger (1.2% vs 4.3%, P < .05) and elderly groups (0.9% vs 6.9%, P < .05). Atrioventricular block was less frequent in AEx than A in the younger group (3.2% vs 7.9%, P < .05) but not so in the elderly group (13.0% vs 17.8%, not significant). The frequency of ischemic electrocardiographic changes in DEx and AEx was very similar to that of Ex in both the younger and elderly groups, although ischemic electrocardiographic changes in D and A are known to be less frequent.Of the elderly group who were judged to be fit to exercise to 85% of maximum predicted heart rate, nearly half failed to reach this level. In contrast, the younger patients were able to achieve this level in 67% of tests. Supplementation with modest exercise reduced most of the pharmacologically related adverse effects. The elderly group was not protected from atrioventricular block as effectively as the younger group by additional exercise in the adenosine stress test. Ischemic electrocardiographic changes in the pharmacologic stress test were as frequent as in the exercise stress test when modest supplementary exercise was added to the pharmacologic protocol. There were no deaths, myocardial infarction, or other major complications. These observations suggest that exercise and pharmacologic stress tests are safe in the elderly, including those patients more than 75 years old.