Kawasaki disease in children--9 years experience. The aim of the study was assessment of the course and treatment of Kawasaki disease on the basis of own experience.Between November 1995 and December 2004 Kawasaki disease (KD) was diagnosed in 30 patients, (20 boys, 10 girls). The median age in acute stage was 20 months (range 1-96 months). Patients were divided into 4 groups (gr) according to changes in coronary arteries (CA). Group 1 (N=13) without CA aneurysms (CAA), group II (N=5) with small (<5mm) CAA. Group III (N=5) with medium (5-8mm) CAA, group IV (N=7) with giant (>8mm) CAA. Echocardiographic examination was performed in all patients. In echocardiographic examination the following were observed: CAA and valvar insufficiency in 15 patients, left ventricle enlargement in 3 patients, pericardial effusion in 6 patients. The treatment was intravenous immunoglobulin and aspirin in all patients, steroid treatment in 2 patients methylprednisolone, in 2 patients prednisone, in l patient hydrocortisone. The anti-inflammatory treatment was started after 10 days of illness in 66.7% of patients. Thrombi in CAA were treated in 6 patients, the treatment was: in all tissue - type plasminogen activator iv and intracoronary in 2 patients heparin in allduring anti-inflammatory treatment (immunoglobulin, aspirin, steroid treatment) loss of fever, normalization of inflammatory markers, and no side effect, were observed except for 1 patient treated with methylprednosolone with thrombi in CAA during treatment and no side effects during treatment. During the follow-up period CAA regressed in 5 patients (35.7%), CAA became smaller in 7 patients (50%), CAA were the same in 2 patients (14.3%). Changes in echocardiographic examination: valvar insufficiency, left ventricle enlargement, pericardial effusion, disappeared during follow-up. Perfusion defects were observed in 4 patients in SPECT. In coronary angiography changes were observed in coronary arteries in 4 patients.1. Kawasaki disease was diagnosed in 66.7% children after 10 days of illness. 2. Coronary artery aneurysms were found in 56.6% treated children. 3. Regression of CAA was observed in 37.5% patients mainly with small CAA. They became smaller in 50% cases mainly with medium and giant CAA. 4. Mortality rate was 6.7% and concerned children with giant CAA they died during the first 8 months of illness. 5. Thrombolytic treatment of thrombi in CAA (rt-PA, heparin, enoxaparine, abciximab, acenocumarol, aspirin) was safe and successful. 6. In all patients with medium and giant CAA in the acute stage, changes were observed in echocardiographic, angiographic examination and myocardial perfusion during follow-up.