The role of PET-CT in detecting unknown primary tumour in patients with cervical lymph node metastases. PET-CT examination was conducted with 440 patients treated at the Department of Head and Neck Surgery, National Institute of Oncology, Budapest, between January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2010. Out of them 77 patients were selected with whom no examination of any sort (physical, pan-endoscopy, or any of the conventional imaging techniques) succeeded in identifying the primary tumour. In each case the primary examination (aspiration cytology and histology) verified cervical metastases, most of them being squamous cell carcinoma. The significance of PET-CT was retrospectively evaluated in cases of unknown primary tumour with verified cervical metastases. We tested the sensitivity of PET-CT in detection of the primary malignant tumour, and possible distant metastases or a second primary in order to plan an optimal treatment schedule for the patient. Patients with whom the examinations specified in the treatment protocol (physical examination, pan-endoscopy, conventional imaging, biopsy) had failed to diagnose the primary tumour were referred to PET-CT. In each case 18F-FDG tracer was used. In 21/77 patients (27%), the PET-CT yielded unequivocal evidence for the primary tumour confirmed by histology, as well. With 10 others (13%), the precarious diagnoses by various imaging techniques were confirmed by the PET-CT. False positive findings with PET-CT that were not verified either by histology or control examination tests occurred but in 10 patients (13%). Concerning the primary tumour, false negative result was obtained only with 3 patients (4%). It should be noted that their retrospective evaluation proved diagnostic errors, the primary tumours were visible in all the scans. With 33 patients (43%) PET-CT furnished no additional information compared to the previous examinations. In 10 patients, asymptomatic distant metastases and in 3 patients synchronous tumours were diagnosed. We also acknowledge that the significance of PET-CT using 18F-FDG is unquestionable in the detection of unknown primary tumours. It is strongly recommended to re-include the detection of unknown primaries in the approved national indication list of PET-CT. (Note, until January 1, 2008 it had been included!) PET-CT is capable of detecting a primary tumour, after all unsuccessful diagnostic examinations till then, in 25-40% of the cases. One cannot disregard the role and significance of PET-CT in the detection of asymptomatic synchronous tumours, or distant metastases. These benefits make PET-CT a suitable tool for the refinement of individually tailored treatment strategies leading to better therapeutic results and more favourable cost-benefit ratio.