Monitoring sodium methohexital distribution with [99mTc]HMPAO with single photon emission computed tomography during Wada test. Twenty-five consecutive patients being considered for surgery for intractable epilepsy had intracarotid sodium methohexital procedures (ISM) as part of their evaluation. The lipophilic brain SPECT agent, [99mTc]hexamethylpropylene aminoxime (HMPAO), was administered intravenously during the procedure to determine the intracerebral distribution of methohexital. The validity of the ISM depends on consistent delivery of the anesthetizing agent to one hemisphere, including the mesial structures of the temporal lobe. To prevent postoperative language and memory deficits, correct interpretation of the test results supposes a reliable knowledge of which regions of the brain have been anesthetized. Currently, no absolute criteria allow determination of the level and topographical extent of the anesthesia. We compared results of HMPAO-SPECT with clinical and EEG video-monitoring data and with results of digital subtraction angiography (DSA) performed during the test. In all patients, the effect of SM was ipsilateral cerebral hypoperfusion on SPECT and crossed cerebellar diaschisis. The distribution of HMPAO varied from patient to patient. The delivery of SM to mesial temporal lobe structures was not constant. Using nonparametric tests, we demonstrated a statistically significant relationship between hypoperfusion on SPECT and duration of hemiplegia but not with the duration of aphasia. Hypoperfusion on SPECT was also related to the onset and duration of drug-induced delta activity on EEG. SPECT showed a statistically different distribution of SM in the brain from that predicted with DSA. We present our experience with HMPAO-SPECT use for mapping the distribution of methohexital's effects during the ISM (Wada test). We confirm the results of previous studies that SPECT assessment may be an excellent way of determining the distribution of barbiturate during the examination. It increases confidence in interpreting results of speech and memory testing by detecting either contralateral diffusion of the drug due to crossflow between hemispheres or insufficient quantitative delivery to the homolateral hemisphere.