Antipsychoticlike effects of amoxapine, without catalepsy, using the prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex test in rats. The dibenzoxazepine amoxapine was introduced as an antidepressant but has shown antipsychoticlike activity in a number of animal screening tests. A recent positron emission tomography study showed a 5-HT(2)/D(2) receptor occupancy profile of amoxapine that is very similar to that of established atypical antipsychotics. Schizophrenics display deficits in sensory gating mechanisms, such as prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle reflex. A similar deficit can be produced by dopamine (DA) and by 5-HT(2A/C) receptor agonists in rats. Antipsychotic compounds reverse this effect.Effects of amoxapine on apomorphine- or 1-(2, 5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI)-induced disruption of PPI were studied in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. The extrapyramidal side effect (EPS) liability of amoxapine was assessed using the inclined grid catalepsy (CAT) test. Statistical analyses were performed by analysis of variance (ANOVA) for fully repeated measures (PPI) and by the Kruskal-Wallis one-way ANOVA by ranks (CAT).Apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg) produced a significant reduction in PPI compared with the case of rats in the saline control group. Pretreatment with amoxapine (10 mg/kg) significantly attenuated the apomorphine-induced disruption of PPI. DOI (0.5 mg/kg) significantly reduced PPI compared with saline controls. Pretreatment with amoxapine (5 or 10 mg/kg) produced a significant attenuation of the DOI-induced disruption of PPI. Amoxapine by itself did not alter PPI. Amoxapine (5 or 10 mg/kg) did not produce CAT.The DA D(2)/5-HT(2) receptor antagonist amoxapine produced an antipsychoticlike reversal of both apomorphine- and DOI-induced disruption of PPI. Furthermore, the same doses of amoxapine that reversed disruption of PPI did not produce CAT. The results confirm and lend further support to the results of previous studies on amoxapine, suggesting that amoxapine might possess antipsychotic activity with little propensity for producing EPS.