Postoperative management in patients with complex congenital heart disease. Life-threatening problems occur in the neonate and infant after cardiac surgery because of the interplay of diminished cardiac output (CO), increased metabolic demand, inflammatory responses to cardiopulmonary bypass, and maladaptive responses to stress. Therefore, the postoperative management of patients with complex congenital heart defects is directed at optimization of oxygen delivery to maintain end-organ function and promote wound healing. Traditionally, assessment of circulation in the postoperative congenital heart patient has depended on indirect assessment of CO using parameters such as blood pressure, pulses, capillary refill, and urine output. Because of the limitations of indirect and observer-dependent assessment of CO, we rely on objective measures of tissue oxygen levels for the complex postoperative patient. We have found that continuous monitoring of the mixed venous saturation (SvO2) allows for identification of acute changes in systemic oxygen delivery and frequently precedes other indicators of decreased CO. The postoperative patient can be expected to have a period of decreasing CO, and the need for intervention should be anticipated because critical low output syndrome will develop in a subset of patients. Strategies for postoperative care are developed based on the diagnosis and procedure, but optimizing SvO2 is a consistent goal. A uniform approach to airway maintenance, vascular access, and drug infusions, all universal concerns during the perioperative period, minimizes the potential for these predictable and necessary interventions to result in morbidity or mortality. Management of the postoperative single ventricle patient targets stabilization of the systemic vascular resistance through the use of vasodilators to improve systemic perfusion and simplify ventilator management. Management of any individual patient should be driven by objective analysis of available data and must include efforts to re-evaluate the treatment plan as well as to identify unanticipated problems.