Advances in echocardiography. Before the development of echocardiography, cardiac disease in the horse was diagnosed if a loud heart murmur (grade III-IV/VI or louder) and clinical signs of congestive heart failure (coughing, edema, venous distention, jugular pulsations) were detected on physical examination. Arrhythmias that persisted during and after exercise also indicated cardiac disease, which could be characterized electrocardiographically. Electrocardiography, thoracic radiography, angiography, cardiac catheterization, and oximetry could add only small pieces of information about the heart. M-mode echocardiography provided the first "window" with which to evaluate the heart and its intracardiac structures, albeit an ice-pick one-dimensional view. With M-mode echocardiography, the diameter of the aorta at the valves, the left ventricle, right ventricle, and left atrial appendage, as well as the thickness of the interventricular septum and left ventricular free wall, could be measured. Motion and thickness of the tricuspid, mitral, and aortic valves could be assessed, but only in a one-dimensional plane. Two-dimensional echocardiography provided an added dimension, resulting in visualization of all the intracardiac structures, aorta, and pulmonary artery. Two-dimensional echocardiography became the diagnostic technique of choice for the evaluation and characterization of congenital cardiac disease in critically ill neonates, as well as in adult horses. Two-dimensional echocardiography also improved the ability to diagnose valvular regurgitations, characterize valvular lesions (bacterial endocarditis, ruptured chorda tendineae), myocardial function (segmental wall motion abnormalities), atrial size, mass lesions (endocarditis, neoplasia, and thrombi), and pericardial effusion. Information about blood flow was obtained using contrast echocardiography but was limited to certain cardiac abnormalities (congenital cardiac defects and tricuspid regurgitation). This information about blood flow was limited to the detection of positive or negative contrast jets. Comprehensive information about blood flow was lacking until the application of Doppler echocardiography to equine cardiology. Pulsed-wave and color flow Doppler echocardiography resulted in precise localization of the abnormal blood flow and semiquantitation of the shunt flow or regurgitant jet. Color flow Doppler echocardiography sped up the localization and semiquantitation of the jet in many instances and provided some information about blood flow velocity in the enhanced and variance modes. The peak velocity of jets can be determined using continuous-wave Doppler echocardiography. This value then can be used to estimate pressure difference between cardiac chambers or to calculate cardiac output noninvasively if angles parallel to flow can be obtained. Thus, information about cardiac size, function, and blood flow can be combined to diagnose cardiac disease in horses and to formulate a prognosis for life and performance.