Imaging lipid synthesis in hepatocellular carcinoma with [methyl-11c]choline: correlation with in vivo metabolic studies. PET with [methyl-(11)C]-choline (11C-choline) can be useful for detecting well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) that is not 18F-FDG-avid. This study was designed to examine the relationship between choline metabolism and choline tracer uptake in HCC for PET with 11C-choline.Dynamic PET scans of 11C-choline were acquired using the woodchuck models of HCC. After imaging, [methyl-(14)C]-choline was injected, and metabolites from both HCC tissue samples and the surrounding hepatic tissues were extracted and analyzed by radio-high-performance liquid chromatography. The enzymatic activities of choline kinase and choline-phosphate cytidylyltransferase were assayed for correlation with the imaging and metabolism data.PET with 11C-choline showed an HCC detection rate of 9 of 10. The tumor-to-liver ratio for the 9 detected HCCs was 1.89±0.55. Hematoxylin-eosin staining confirmed that all spots with high tracer uptake were well-differentiated HCCs. Variation of radioactivity distribution within HCCs indicated a heterogeneous uptake of choline. The activities of both choline kinase and choline-phosphate cytidylyltransferase were found to be significantly higher in HCC than in the surrounding hepatic tissues. The major metabolites of 11C-choline were phosphocholine in HCC and betaine and choline in the surrounding hepatic tissues at 12 min after injection in HCC, phosphocholine rapidly converted to phosphatidylcholine at 30 min after injection.HCCs display enhanced uptake of radiolabeled choline despite a moderate degree of physiologic uptake in the surrounding hepatic tissues. Initially, increased radiolabeled choline uptake in HCCs is associated with the transport and phosphorylation of choline as time passes, the increased uptake of radiolabeled choline reflects increased phosphatidylcholine synthesis derived from radiolabeled cytidine 5'-diphosphocholine (CDP-choline) in HCCs. In contrast, the surrounding hepatic tissues exhibit extensive oxidation of radiolabeled choline via the phosphatidylethanolamine methylation pathway, a major contributor to the observed physiologic uptake.