 Extracellular matrix (ECM) adhesion molecules consist of a complex network of fibronectins, collagens, chondroitins, laminins, glycoproteins, heparin sulfate, tenascins, and proteoglycans that surround connective tissue cells, and they are mainly secreted by fibroblasts, chondroblasts, and osteoblasts (1). Cell substrate adhesion molecules are considered essential regulators of cell migration, differentiation, and tissue integrity and remodeling. These molecules play a role in inflammation and atherogenesis, but they also participate in the process of invasion and metastasis of malignant cells in the host tissue (2). Invasive tumor cells adhere to the ECM, which provides a matrix environment for permeation of tumor cells through the basal lamina and underlying interstitial stroma of the connective tissue. Overexpression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and other proteases by tumor cells allows intravasation of tumor cells into the circulatory system after degrading the basement membrane and ECM (3). Tumor angiogenesis represents a continuous and important process in tumor development in which the tumor attempts to gain an independent blood supply (4). This process is driven by the tumor's overproduction of angiogenic factors, which bind to receptors on nearby vessel endothelial cells. Angiogenesis is essential for the growth of solid tumors and their metastases. Imaging angiogenesis may be useful for monitoring angiogenic treatments of tumors and cardiovascular diseases (5-7). Aminopeptidase N (APN, CD13) is a membrane-bound glycoprotein with MMP activity that cleaves unsubstituted N-terminal amino acids with neutral side chains from peptides (8). APN has been shown to play a role in tumor angiogenesis, invasion, and metastasis (9). In addition to endothelial cells of angiogenic vessels, most cells of myeloid origin, epithelial cells, fibroblasts, and smooth muscle cells also express CD13 (10, 11). High levels of CD13 expression were found in solid tumors and tumor vasculatures. Probestin ((2