Safety of early intravenous dipyridamole technetium 99m sestamibi SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging after uncomplicated first myocardial infarction. Early Post MI IV Dipyridamole Study (EPIDS). We assessed the safety of early (2 to 4 days) intravenous dipyridamole infusion in conjunction with technetium 99m sestamibi tomographic myocardial perfusion imaging in patients with first myocardial infarction (MI). Early risk stratification with myocardial perfusion imaging of patients after acute MI may be useful to identify patients who either require further evaluation or may be safely discharged. Because of minimal hemodynamic effects, intravenous dipyridamole may be a safe means of producing hyperemia for myocardial perfusion imaging. Stable patients with first acute MI who met entry criteria were randomized (3:1) to either intravenous dipyridamole infusion (0.56 mg/kg over a 4-minute period) 48 to 96 hours after onset of symptoms or a control (no test) group. Adverse cardiac events (unstable angina, recurrent MI, or cardiac death) were evaluated during and 24 hours after the dipyridamole infusion and during the corresponding 24 hours for the control group. Two hundred eighty-four patients received dipyridamole infusion a mean time of 3.3 +/- 0.7 days after MI. There were no adverse clinical events either during or immediately after the infusion. During the 24 hours after infusion, three patients had symptoms of unstable angina pectoris, one patient had a recurrent MI, and no patients died. The earliest event occurred 4.2 hours after the dipyridamole infusion. Three patients had unstable angina pectoris, whereas no patients had either recurrent MI or died in the control group. There were no statistically significant differences between the two groups. In a multicenter trial, dipyridamole infusion administered early after the first acute MI resulted in no increased evidence of cardiac events either immediately or 24 hours after the procedure compared with a control group. Therefore intravenous dipyridamole can be safely used as a pharmacologic vasodilator for myocardial perfusion imaging soon after uncomplicated MI.