Biophysical investigations on the myb-DNA system. The oncogene product c-myb is a transcriptional modulator and is known to play important roles in cell growth and differentiation. It binds to DNA in a sequence specific manner and its cognate sequence motifs have been detected in the genes of proteins implying its role in a variety of regulatory functions. The protein has a DNA binding domain consisting of three imperfect repeats with highly conserved tryptophans at regular spacings in each of the repeats. We have carried out a variety of investigations on the structure and interactions of the DNA binding domain of Drosophila c-myb and its cognate DNA target sequences. The domain has been bacterially over-expressed by subcloning a segment of the gene coding for the domain in a pET 11d vector and transforming it into E. coli BL21 (DE3). Circular dichroism of the protein has revealed that the domain is largely helical in nature. Fluorescence investigations indicated that three out of the nine tryptophans are solvent exposed and the others are buried in the interior. The recombinant protein is able to distinguish between specific and non-specific DNA targets in its binding and the interaction is largely electrostatic in nature in both cases. Dynamic fluorescence quenching experiments suggested that the DNA binding sites on the protein for specific and non-specific DNA targets are physically different. Most of the conserved tryptophans are associated with the specific DNA binding site. Simulated annealing and molecular dynamic simulations in a water matrix have been used to predict an energetically favoured conformation for the protein. Calculation of surface accessibilities of the individual residues shows that nearly 60% of the residues are less than 50% accessible to the solvent. Two and three dimensional NMR experiments with isotopically labelled protein have enabled spin system identification for many residue type and the types of residues involved in hydrophobic core formation in the protein. In an attempt to see the DNA surface possibly involved in specific interaction with the protein, a three-dimensional structure of a 12 mer cognate DNA has been determined by NMR in conjunction with restrained energy minimization. The recognition sequence shows interesting structural characteristics that may have important roles in specific interaction.