Identification of hemodynamically significant restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in acute myocardial infarction by transesophageal dobutamine stress echocardiography and comparison with myocardial single photon emission computed tomography. Beside thrombolysis, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) has become a well-established treatment for acute myocardial infarction. However, restenosis occurs in approximately 15%-40% of patients. Despite a frequently occurring infarct-related regional systolic dysfunction at rest, the identification of hemodynamically relevant restenosis seems important in terms of risk stratification, adequate treatment, and possible improvement of prognosis in these patients. This study was designed to assess the role of transesophageal dobutamine stress echocardiography and myocardial scintigraphy for identification of hemodynamically significant restenosis after PTCA for acute myocardial infarction.Multiplane transesophageal stress echocardiography (dobutamine 5, 10, 20, 30, and 40 micrograms/kg per min) studies and myocardial single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies were performed in 40 patients, all of whom underwent PTCA in the setting of acute myocardial infarction > or = 4 months prior to the test. Repeated coronary angiography was performed in all study patients who showed stress-induced perfusion defects or wall-motion abnormalities, or both.Significant restenosis (> or = 50%) was angiographically found in 15 (37.5%) of 40 patients. Of these 15 patients, transesophageal dobutamine stress echocardiography identified restenosis in 12 (80%) and myocardial SPECT in 14 (93%), yielding diagnostic agreement in 70% of patients. Echocardiographic detection of restenosis was based mainly on a biphasic response to increasing doses of dobutamine. Sensitivity and specificity for identification of hemodynamically relevant restenosis in individual patients was 80% and 92%, respectively for dobutamine stress echocardiography versus 93% and 68% for myocardial SPECT.Both transesophageal dobutamine stress echocardiography and myocardial SPECT were highly sensitive in identifying significant restenosis after PTCA for acute myocardial infarction. Therefore, either test, as a single diagnostic tool or especially if performed together, are clinically valuable alternatives to coronary angiography for the detection of restenosis after PTCA for acute myocardial infarction.