Diagnostic accuracy of the SPECT of post-stress myocardial perfusion with attenuation and scatter correction. To evaluate the effect of attenuation and scatter correction (AC-SC) on the diagnostic accuracy of post-stress myocardial perfusion (MP) SPECT.The retrospective analysis included 121 patients who had a non-corrected (NC) and AC-SC 99mTc-Tetrofosmin MP SPECT after stress. The left ventricle was divided into 13 segments. Two observers performed a visual assessment of the MP on a scale from 0 (perfusion defect) to 3 (normal uptake). A consensus on concordances and discordances between the NC and AC-SC images was established. Final diagnosis of coronary artery disease (CAD) was established by coronary angiography (CANG) (stenosis > or = 70 %).The combined analysis of NC and AC-SC images produced 93 concordances and 28 discordances. Of the 93 concordances, both studies were abnormal in 67 patients (abnormal CANG in 57) and normal in 26 patients (normal CANG in 20). Among the 28 discordances, 23 were abnormal NC/normal AC-SC (normal CANG in 18) and 5 normal NC/abnormal AC-SC. In these 5 patients AC-SC generated anterior perfusion defects but the CANG was normal. Overall, the appearance of NC and AC-SC images were in agreement with the CANG findings in the 72 % (87/121) and 78 % (95/121) of the patients, respectively. Sixty-seven of the 90 patients with abnormal NC had also abnormal AC-SC (abnormal CANG in 57) and the other 23 had normal AC-SC (normal CANG in 18). The appearance of AC-SC was in agreement with CANG finding in the 83 % (75/90) of patients with abnormal NC. MP abnormalities in NC normalized by AC-SC were more frequently located in inferior wallAC-SC improves the diagnostic accuracy of post stress NC MP SPECT for the diagnosis of CAD. From these results we consider that AC-SC is of clinical value for the correction of attenuation artifacts, more frequently observed in the inferior wall. The presence of antero-apical perfusion defects in AC-SC with normal NC does not mean CAD. So it is necessary to adjust the normalcy pattern of MP SPECT when AC-SC is performed.