Induction and concurrent taxanes enhance both the pulmonary metabolic radiation response and the radiation pneumonitis response in patients with esophagus cancer. The primary aim of this study was to assess pulmonary radiation toxicity quantitatively in patients who received thoracic radiotherapy combined with induction and/or concurrent chemotherapy with or without taxanes for esophageal cancer.The study subjects were 139 patients treated at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center for esophageal cancer and who had undergone [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography between November 1, 2003 and December 15, 2007 for disease restaging after chemoradiotherapy. The patients were grouped into those who had not received taxanes (Group 1), those who had received induction or concurrent taxanes (Group 2), and those who had received both induction and concurrent taxanes (Group 3). Clinical pulmonary toxicity was scored using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 3. Linear regression was applied to the fluorodeoxyglucose uptake vs. radiation dose to determine the pulmonary metabolic radiation response (PMRR) for each case. The clinical toxicity scores and PMRR among the groups were evaluated for significance differences.The crude rate of pneumonitis symptoms was 46%, 62%, and 74% for Group 1, 2, and 3, respectively. The analysis of variance test of log(PMRR) by treatment was significant (p = .0046). Group 3 had a 61% greater PMRR compared with Group 1 (p = .002). Group 2 had a 38% greater PMRR compared with Group 1 (p = .015). Finally, Group 3 had a 17% greater PMRR compared with Group 2 (p = .31). A PMRR enhancement ratio of 1.60 (95% confidence interval, 1.19-2.14) was observed for Group 3 vs. Group 1.Patients given induction and concurrent taxane chemotherapy had a significantly greater PMRR and clinical pneumonitis symptoms compared with the patients whose chemotherapy regimen did not include taxanes.