Leucoaraiosis, nigrostriatal denervation and motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease. Leucoaraiosis is associated with motor symptoms in otherwise normal older adults. Comorbid leucoaraiosis is predicted to contribute also to motor features in Parkinson's disease but previous studies of white matter changes in Parkinson's disease show variable results. No prior studies have compared directly the effects of both leucoaraiosis and the degree of nigrostriatal dopaminergic denervation on motor features. We investigated the effect of leucoaraiosis severity on motor impairment independent of the degree of nigrostriatal dopaminergic denervation in Parkinson's disease. Seventy-three subjects with Parkinson's disease (Hoehn and Yahr stages 1-3) underwent brain magnetic resonance and [(11)C]dihydrotetrabenazine vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 positron emission tomography imaging. Automated assessment of supratentorial fluid-attenuated inversion recovery magnetic resonance hyperintense white matter voxels was performed using cerebellar white matter as the intensity reference. White matter signal hyperintensity burden was log-transformed and normalized for brain volume. Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale total and subscore ratings were assessed to determine motor impairment. Subjects receiving dopaminergic medications were examined in the clinically defined 'OFF' state. Multivariate regression analysis with measures of white matter signal hyperintensity burden and nigrostriatal denervation as independent variables demonstrated a significant overall model for total motor Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale scores (F  = 11.4, P < 0.0001) with significant regression effects for both white matter signal hyperintensity burden (t  = 2.0, β = 0.22, P = 0.045) and striatal monoaminergic binding (t = -3.5, β = -0.38, P = 0.0008). Axial motor impairment demonstrated a robust association with white matter signal hyperintensity burden (t  = 4.0, β = 0.43, P  =0.0001) compared with striatal monoaminergic binding (t = -2.1, β = 0.22, P = 0.043). White matter signal hyperintensity burden regression effects for bradykinesia had borderline significance. No significant white matter signal hyperintensity burden effects were found for rigidity or tremor subscores. White matter signal hyperintensity burden was significantly higher in the subgroup with postural instability and gait difficulties compared with the tremor-predominant subgroup despite no significant differences in age or duration of disease. These findings indicate that increased white matter signal hyperintensity burden is associated with worse motor performance independent of the degree of nigrostriatal dopaminergic denervation in Parkinson's disease. Comorbid white matter disease is a greater determinant of axial motor impairment than nigrostriatal dopaminergic denervation.