Comparison of the myocardial blood flow response to regadenoson and dipyridamole: a quantitative analysis in patients referred for clinical 82Rb myocardial perfusion PET. Regadenoson is a novel selective A2A adenosine receptor agonist, which is administered as an intravenous bolus at a fixed dose. It is currently not clear if the absolute flow increase in response to this fixed dose is a function of distribution volume in individual patients or if it is generally comparable to the previous standard agents dipyridamole or adenosine, which are dosed based on weight. We used quantitative analysis of clinical 82Rb PET/CT studies to obtain further insights.A total of 104 subjects with normal clinical rest/stress 82Rb perfusion PET/CT were included in a retrospective analysis. To rule out confounding factors, none had evidence of prior cardiac disease, ischaemia or infarction, cardiomyopathy, diabetes with insulin use, calcium score>400, renal disease or other significant systemic disease. A group of 52 patients stressed with regadenoson were compared with a group of 52 patients stressed with dipyridamole before regadenoson became available. The groups were matched for clinical characteristics, risk factors and baseline haemodynamics. Myocardial blood flow (MBF) and myocardial flow reserve (MFR) were quantified using a previously validated retention model, after resampling of dynamic studies from list-mode 82Rb datasets.At rest, heart rate, blood pressure and MBF were comparable between the groups. Regadenoson resulted in a significantly higher heart rate (34±14 vs. 23±10 beats per minute increase from baseline p<0.01) and rate-pressure product. Patients in the regadenoson group reported less severe symptoms and required less aminophylline. Stress MBF and MFR were not different between the groups (2.2±0.6 vs. 2.1±0.6 ml/min/g, p=0.39, and 2.9±0.8 vs. 2.8±0.7, p=0.31, respectively). In the regadenoson group, there was no correlation between stress flow or MFR and body weight or BMI.Despite its administration at a fixed dose, regadenoson results in an absolute increase in MBF which is comparable to that following dipyridamole administration and is independent of patient distribution volume. This further supports its usefulness as a clinical stress agent.