Can Tl-201 myocardial SPECT abnormalities in orthotopic heart recipients be explained by coronary vessel wall alterations assessed by intravascular ultrasound? The aim of this study was to compare findings on coronary intravascular ultrasound and thallium-201 SPECT in patients following orthotopic heart transplantation.No data are available on whether pathological thallium scintigraphic findings in heart recipients are based on coronary vessel wall alterations identifiable by intravascular ultrasound.29 patients (mean age: 50.9 +/- 11.5 years male n = 23) were investigated by means of intravascular ultrasound of selected coronary segments and thallium-201 myocardial SPECT. Patients were investigated 11.6 +/- 5.4 weeks post transplantation, a subgroup of 13 patients was re-investigated 70.2 +/- 18.4 weeks following transplantation. A total of 214 cross-sectional areas of the left coronary artery were examined using a 3.5 French intravascular ultrasound catheter to measure intimal index and the circumferential extension of a three-layer appearance of the vessel wall. Shortly after catheterisation, an ergometric stress-test was performed to examine all recipients by means of thallium-201 SPECT. In each patient, 20 segments of the left ventricle were evaluated using a score system of differentiate between persistent defects, redistribution, and reverse redistribution. A score was developed that measured the degree of inhomogeneity and severity of perfusion defects, respectively. Findings on scintigraphy were correlated to coronary intravascular ultrasound findings.At first investigation, mean intimal index of all evaluated coronary cross-sectional areas was 0.06 +/- 0.1. Sixty-four cross-sectional areas demonstrated a three-layer appearance of the vessel wall, mean circumferential extension was 72 +/- 122 degrees. Thallium scintigraphy demonstrated a total of 336 (40%) pathological left ventricular segments 168 (20%) were regarded as permanent defects, 67 (8%) demonstrated redistribution and 101 (12%) showed reverse redistribution. The score of inhomogeneity was calculated as 5.8% +/- 2.6%. In the subgroup of patients at the follow-up study, the score was 6.4 +/- 2.8%. There was no correlation between intimal index and the score, nor could any correlation be confirmed between the score and the circumferential extension of a three-layer appearance of the vessel wall. At second investigation, no significant differences of intimal index (0.05 +/- 0.07) or circumferential extension of a three-layer appearance of the vessel wall (74 +/- 118 degrees) could be confirmed. The score was slightly, but significantly increased to 8.1 +/- 4.5% at the second investigation (P < 0.05).Early after orthotopic heart transplantation, pathologic thallium distribution patterns of the left ventricle could be observed. These pathological patterns did not correlate with the extent of diffuse coronary vessel wall alterations identifiable by intravascular ultrasound. After more than 1 year, the degree of scintigraphic abnormalities increased significantly, not accompanied by an increase of diffuse coronary vessel wall alterations.