Attenuation correction improves the detection of viable myocardium by thallium-201 cardiac tomography in patients with previous myocardial infarction and left ventricular dysfunction. The aim of this study was to determine the influence of attenuation-corrected thallium-201 stress/redistribution/reinjection single-photon emission tomography (SPET) on the number of viable segments in patients with previous myocardial infarction and dysfunctional myocardium. Fifty-one patients with previous myocardial infarction and left ventricular dysfunction were included in the study. In all patients, 201Tl non-corrected (NC) and attenuation-corrected (AC) SPET was performed using a stress/redistribution/reinjection protocol followed by coronary angiography. A semiquantitative analysis was performed using polar maps for NC and AC stress, redistribution and reinjection short-axis and vertical long-axis (apex) slices. Severe (perfusion defect below 50%/maximal count rate: PD < 50), mild and moderate persistent defects for redistribution and reinjection were evaluated for both NC and AC studies. A total of 1581 segments were evaluated by semiquantitative segmental analysis for both NC and AC studies for each redistribution and reinjection map. In the redistribution maps, NC revealed a total of 352 segments and AC a total of 222 segments with impaired perfusion below 50% of the maximal count rate (PD < 50). The mean number of affected segments was 6.9 +/- 5.5 in the case of NC and 4.4 +/- 4.8 in the case of AC (P < 0.001). In the reinjection maps, NC revealed a total of 263 non-viable segments (PD < 50) and AC a total of 169 non-viable segments. The mean number of affected segments was 5.2 +/- 5.3 in the case of NC and 3.3 +/- 4.2 in the case of AC (P < 0.001). Recovery of function was better predicted by AC than by NC in 20% of patients in the follow-up group. Therefore, the use of attenuation correction influences the extent of viable segments by showing more viable segments in either redistribution or reinjection maps. 201Tl imaging without attenuation correction may underestimate the extent of tissue viability, which may contribute to the lower sensitivity compared to fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography, where attenuation correction is a routinely performed procedure.