Marked ventricular repolarization abnormalities in highly trained athletes' electrocardiograms: clinical and prognostic implications. We sought to study the functional, clinical and prognostic implications of marked repolarization abnormalities (MRA) sometimes seen in athletes' electrocardiograms (ECGs).The clinical meaning of ECG MRA in athletes is unknown. No relationship has been drawn between either training intensity or any particular type of sport and MRA. Athletes are usually symptom free and do not show any decrease in their physical performance. It is as yet unclear whether MRA may have a negative effect on the performance of such athletes in competitive sports.We studied 26 athletes with MRA (negative T waves > or =2 mm in three or more ECG leads at rest). No athletes presented clinical symptoms of cardiac disease or decrease in their physical performance. Clinical and physical examinations, ECG at rest, exercise test and echocardiographic and antimyosin studies were performed in all athletes. Rest/exercise myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography studies were performed in 17 athletes. The follow-up ranged from 4 to 20 years (mean 6.7 years).Four athletes were excluded due to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Echocardiographic studies showed right and left normal ventricular dimensions for highly conditioned athletes. In the exercise test, heart rate was 166 +/- 12.4 beats/min, and exercise tolerance was 15.2 +/- 2.7 metabolic equivalents of the task. All athletes had ECG at rest simulating myocardial ischemia or "pseudoischemia" with a tendency to normalize during exercise. Myocardial perfusion studies were normal in the studied athletes. Antimyosin studies showed mild and diffuse myocardial radiotracer uptake in 15 athletes (68%). No adverse clinical events were observed in the follow-up.These results suggest that MRA have no clinical or pathological implications in athletes and should, therefore, not preclude physical training or participation in sporting events.