The role of noninvasive methods of investigation in diagnosis of atherosclerosis. Visualization of the myocardium with the use of various high technologies gains more and more important significance in diseases of cardiovascular system. Large value for investigations of the heart and blood vessels have acquired methods of echocardiography, magnetic resonance tomography, spiral computed tomography, as well as large spectrum of methods of nuclear cardiology. Contemporary value of instrumental methods of investigation for diagnostics of atherosclerosis is discussed in this paper and diagnostic possibilities of various techniques for assessment of the state of myocardium, pathological changes of vascular wall and for visualization of atherosclerotic plaques (AP) are presented. Advantages and drawbacks of methods, their complex application for objective analysis of changes in AP and their clinical significance are considered. Special accent is made on early diagnosis of pathological derangements, because full value information allows making adequate decisions about subsequent curative measures. It is shown that detection and evaluation of early signs of atherosclerosis appears to be determining factor of efficacy of treatment. In patients without obvious symptoms of ischemic heart disease or at the background of postinfarction cardiosclerosis nuclear cardiology with assessment of myocardial perfusion by single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography (PET) appears rather valuable for assessment of viability even when coronary arteries are unchanged. Important significance for detection of cardiosclerosis has also acquired spiral computed tomography, which allows to reveal calcium in blood vessels. The use of multislice computed tomography in perspective might partially replace coronary angiography especially for assessment of degree of stenoses and patency of grafts. On initial stages of atherosclerosis information on AP structure especially on the presence of inflammatory component is very important. Definite successes become noticeable with application of magnetic resonance tomography for detection of AP. However, probably, further perfection of equipment and methodological approaches with the use of novel contrasts is necessary. In this plane definite successes are achieved by PET and combined examinations by methods of PET/CT integrating advantages of both techniques.