Interobserver reproducibility of the interpretation of I-123 FP-CIT single-photon emission computed tomography. I-123 ioflupane (FP-CIT) single-photon emission computed tomography is a recognized tool in the diagnosis of Parkinsonian syndromes. In practice, data interpretation relies on visual and semiquantitative analyses. Good interobserver reproducibility is a prerequisite before claiming the robustness of a technique. This study aimed at evaluating interobserver reproducibility of this approach.Thirty nuclear medicine physicians participated in the study. Data included FP-CIT images and semiquantitative measurements of 12 cases, covering a wide spectrum of scintigraphic patterns and for which a 'true' clinical diagnosis based on long-term follow-up was available. Interobserver agreement was defined, for each case, as the highest percentage reached among the three proposed answers with complete agreement arbitrarily set at 80% or more. Variability in an individual observer's sensitivity to assess data as normal, equivocal or abnormal was scored using a three-point scale.Response rate was 99.7%. Among the three possible answers,'normal' accounted for 41.2% of the total, 'abnormal' for 49.8% and 'equivocal' for 8.1%. The mean interobserver agreement was 76% (range: 37-100%), with complete agreement being reached only in five cases. The interpretation proposed by most observers accorded to clinical diagnosis in 75% of the cases. Abnormalities of the central nervous system were encountered in all the cases with disagreement between the observer's interpretation and clinical diagnoses. An important variability in the observers' sensitivity was seen.In the particular setting of this preliminary study evaluating the reproducibility of FP-CIT single-photon emission computed tomography interpretation in a group of nuclear medicine physicians with various experiences, interobserver agreement was suboptimal. Collegial discussion and standardized interpretation criteria could contribute to an improved reproducibility.