Sex-specific normal limits of left ventricular ejection fraction and volumes estimated by gated myocardial perfusion imaging in adult patients in Taiwan: a comparison between two quantitative methods. The left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF) and end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes are strong predictors for prognosis of cardiac death. Quantitative-gated myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is widely used to measure LV functional parameters. However, systematic differences may exist between referred populations. We sought to derive sex-specific normal values for LV functional parameters obtained using two quantitative methods.Among 1044 consecutive patients who underwent dipyridamole stress myocardial perfusion-gated 201Tl SPECT in 2008, a total of 140 (56 men) with normal perfusion imaging were selected. None had cardiac diseases or experienced cardiac events during 1-year follow-up. LV EF and end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes were calculated by quantitative-gated SPECT (QGS) and four-dimensional-myocardial single photon emission computed tomography (4D-MSPECT), respectively.There was excellent intrareader and interreader reproducibility for both QGS and 4D-MSPECT algorithms. The differences in LV volumes and EF between the software packages were small. High prevalence of small heart was noted in the study population, especially in women (>60%). Volumetric measures were significantly greater (P<0.001) in men than in women, even after adjustment for body surface area. Women had a higher LV EF than men when using QGS methods, but not when using the 4D-MSPECT method. Compared with 4D-MSPECT, sex remained significantly associated with EF determined by QGS methods, independent of age and body weight.LV functional parameters determined by means of gated 201Tl SPECT need to be corrected for sex and algorithms. Separate reference values of LV EF and volumes need to be applied in both women and men depending on the software package used.