Scintigraphic studies in adrenal hypertension. Endocrine hypertension secondary to disorders of the adrenal glands is uncommon, but by no means rare. The importance of correct biochemical diagnosis and subsequent localization of the responsible lesion(s) lie in the fact that many of these syndromes occur in younger patients, may exhibit familial patterns of inheritance and are frequently amenable to surgical cure. The radiopharmaceuticals (131)1-6 beta-iodomethyl-19-norcholesterol (NP-59), a marker of adrenocortical cholesterol uptake, and (131)1- and (123)1-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG), a norepinephrine (NE) analog and marker of energy-dependent NE storage vesicle accumulation, can be shown to accurately localize adrenal cortex and sympathoadrenal dysfunction, respectively. In Cushing's syndrome (CS) not only does the pattern of NP-59 uptake depict the adrenal dysfunction and its pathophysiologic basis, but the level of NP-59 accumulation reflects the degree of adrenocortical hyperfunction. Adrenocorticotrophin-independent CS is uniformly and accurately localized, especially in bilateral cortical nodular hyperplasia where even high resolution computed tomography (CT) may fail to depict the often subtle, asymmetric anatomic abnormalities. Dexamethasone suppression NP-59 adrenal scintigraphy has been shown to be highly sensitive and specific, and exceeds the efficacy of CT in the differentiation of adenoma and bilateral hyperplasia in primary aldosteronism. MIBG is useful as a sympathoadrenal imaging agent whose clinical utility has been demonstrated in the localization of pheochromocytoma, especially as a modality to screen the body for multiple and extraadrenal, recurrent, or metastatic lesions. Moreover, the extent of metastatic involvement from neuroblastoma can also be accurately depicted using MIBG. In this review we will examine the role of adrenal scintigraphy in the characterization of hypersecretory disorders of the adrenal cortex, medulla, and related conditions that produce hypertension as part of their symptom(s) complex. This approach, which is complementary to other anatomical modalities of imaging, can be used to advantage in the localization of functioning cortical and medulla adrenal diseases and other neoplasms of adrenergic origin.