Combined left ventricular wall motion and myocardial perfusion stress imaging in the initial assessment of patients with a recent uncomplicated myocardial infarction. The aim of the study was to examine the ability to simultaneously assess left ventricular function and myocardial perfusion by using a single injection of technetium-99m sestamibi at rest and during submaximal exercise to identify high-risk patients with left main, proximal left anterior descending (LAD), or three-vessel coronary artery disease (CAD) after an uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Multiple studies have evaluated the separate value of the exercise ECG, myocardial perfusion scintigraphy, and radionuclide angiocardiography (RNA) for identifying patients with severe CAD. The availability of technetium-99m (Tc99m)-labeled myocardial imaging agents offers the opportunity to evaluate simultaneously ventricular function and myocardial perfusion during a single exercise session. Only limited data are available about the value of this combined technique in the workout of patients early after an uncomplicated AMI. Combined first-pass RNA and myocardial perfusion tomoscintigraphy (SPECT) at rest and during submaximal exercise were performed in 52 patients, less than six weeks after an uncomplicated AMI, with use of Tc99m sestamibi. Patients were classified in two subgroups according to the presence of left main, proximal LAD, or three-vessel CAD. Stepwise logistic regression analysis was used to determine the independent predictors of severe CAD. All patients underwent the exercise testing without any medical complication. On univariate analysis, the global left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), wall motion score, and myocardial perfusion score, both at rest and at submaximal exercise, were significantly associated with the presence of severe CAD. The response of LVEF to exercise, and the presence of exercise-induced wall motion or myocardial perfusion abnormalities, were not associated with the severity of CAD. On multivariant analysis only the wall motion score during exercise was an independent predictor for the presence of severe CAD (P < 0.001, r = 0.6). In analyzing patients with anterior AMI separately, LVEF at submaximal exercise was the most accurate predictive parameter. If a cutoff value of 40% was chosen, the LVEF at exercise had a sensitivity of 85% and a specificity of 78% for the detection of severe CAD. In patients with inferior AMI, neither LVEF nor wall motion or myocardial perfusion scores were useful for differentiating the two subgroups. In these patients the presence of an additional perfusion defect during exercise in one of the anterior wall segments yielded a sensitivity of 70% and a specificity of 75% for the presence of severe CAD.simultaneous evaluation of LV function and myocardial perfusion at submaximal exercise, using a single injection of Tc99m-sestamibi, is a safe and accurate technique for selecting patients with severe CAD after an uncomplicated AMI.