Quantitative neuroimaging for the evaluation of the effect of stroke treatment. A prerequisite for the successful treatment of acute ischaemic stroke is the existence of viable tissue that is morphologically intact but functionally impaired due to a flow decrease below a certain threshold. At this stage, tissue at risk of infarction can be identified only by functional imaging. This penumbral tissue can be classified as having a critical flow decrease with preservation of oxygen consumption and therefore increased oxygen extraction. Such 'misery-perfused' tissue has been observed consistently in the first few hours following ischaemic stroke but usually develops into necrosed tissue at follow-up observations. Several studies have indicated that penumbral tissue can be identified up to 17 h or even 48 h after stroke in the border zones of ischaemic tissue and that this condition is occasionally reversible without resulting in permanent infarction. Positron emission tomography studies of cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2) and cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc) can be used to demonstrate the effect of treatment on functional variables within tissue showing perfusional disturbances. Such studies have shown the value of these markers of ischaemia, which also correlate with clinical efficacy. However, when therapeutic strategies, such as thrombolysis, do not permit arterial blood sampling, quantitative determinations of CBF and CMRO2 are not feasible. In such cases relative indices, such as those for CBF, must be applied. Such qualitative assessments of perfusion, which were calibrated in an independent cohort of patients with acute stroke, were used to demonstrate the effect of early systemic treatment of acute ischaemia with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. By applying operationally defined thresholds for tissue viability and the penumbra, and co-registering these tissue compartments to infarcted and non-infarcted tissue on late magnetic resonance imaging, the proportions of at-risk tissue salvaged from infarction could be revealed in individual patients. In the future, functional imaging modalities that could eventually include tracers for neuronal integrity could be used to select patients for thrombolytic therapy. In some instances such techniques may permit the extension of the critical time period for inclusion of patients to aggressive stroke management strategies.