The signal transduction mechanism involved in kazinol B-stimulated superoxide anion generation in rat neutrophils. 1. In this study, the underlying mechanism of stimulation of respiratory burst by kazinol B, a natural isoprenylated flavan, in rat neutrophils in vitro was investigated. 2. Kazinol B concentration-dependently stimulated the superoxide anion (O2*-) generation, with a lag but transient activation profile, in neutrophils but not in a cell-free system. The maximum response (13.2+/-1.4 nmol O2*- 10 min(-1) per 10(6) cells) was observed at 10 microM kazinol B. 3. Pretreatment of neutrophils with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) or formylmethionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (fMLP) significantly enhanced the O2*- generation following the subsequent stimulation of cells with kazinol B. 4. Cells pretreated with EGTA or a protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine effectively attenuated the kazinol B-induced O2*- generation. However, a p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor SB203580 and a phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor wortmannin had no effect on the kazinol B-induced response. 5. Kazinol B significantly stimulated [Ca2+]i elevation in neutrophils, with a lag and slow rate of rise activation profile, and this response was attenuated by a phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor U73122. Kazinol B also stimulated the inositol bis- and trisphosphate (IP2 and IP3) formation with a 1 min lag time. 6. The membrane-associated PKC-alpha and PKC-theta but not PKC-iota were increased following the stimulation of neutrophils with kazinol B. It was more rapid and sensitive in the activation of PKC-theta than PKC-alpha by kazinol B. Kazinol B partially inhibited the [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate ([3H]PDB) binding to the neutrophil cytosolic PKC. 7. Neither the cellular mass of phosphatidic acid (PA) and phosphatidylethanol (PEt), in the presence of ethanol, nor the protein tyrosine phosphorylation were stimulated by kazinol B. In addition, the kazinol B-induced O2*- generation remained relatively unchanged in cells pretreated with ethanol or a tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein. 8. Collectively, these results indicate that the stimulation of the respiratory burst by kazinol B is probably mediated by the synergism of PKC activation and [Ca2+]i elevation in rat neutrophils.