Marginal indications for the Magerl method of fixation of C1-C2 (case report). The authors present a 4-year old girl who had a car accident as a passenger and hurt her head, chest and limbs as well as upper cervical spine. The patient with multiple injuries was taken to the FTN Centre of Children's traumatology, Prague. Here the basic vital functions were ensured and a diagnosis was made of contusion of the brain with quadriparesis and inhibition of the respiratory centre, contusion of the chest, epiphysiolysis of the distal femur and later also instability of C1-C2. A censor for measuring or intracranial pressure was immediately inserted with a subsequent reduction of the distal femur and elastic fixation. External lumbar drainage was performed in the next week instability of C1-C2 was not found out and therefore not treated. Three months after the injury a ventriculoperitoneal shunt for intracranial hypertension was inserted. MRI showed stenosis in the region of occipitocervical passage and dorsal decompression of craniocervical passage was performed which consisted in the removal of the posterior arch of C1 and a significant extension of foramen magnun dorsally and laterally to both sides. Due to persisting ligamentous instability of C1-C2 with a spastic quadriparesis and inhibition of the respiratory centre a surgical atlantoaxial stabilization was indicated, i.e. causal treatment of instability. Seven months after the injury Magerl fixation of C1-C2 was performed by 2.7 mm titanicum screws (Synthes). Preoperative stability of C1-C2 in the reduced position was satisfactory but with regard to iatrogenic instability the C0-C1 fixation was combined with occipitocervical fussion by Ransford loop extending over C0-C3. Further, the triangular flap of periost was overturned from the external occipital protuberance to C3 and all this was bridged by cortical cancellous bone grafts from iliac crest. After two months a check simple and functional x-ray examination showed a stable fusion of C0-C2. The neurological finding remained the same even after one year, i.e. a severe quadriparesis with the inhibition of the respiratory centre requiring artificial lung ventilation.