Thoracolumbar fractures in patients with multiple injuries: diagnosis and treatment-a review of 147 cases. The initial evaluation and treatment of patients with multiple injuries are challenging. However, little is known about thoracolumbar fractures in patients with multiple injuries. We aimed to determine the incidence of missed injuries of the thoracolumbar spine in patients with multiple injuries, to examine the reasons for the delay in diagnosis, and to study the selection of treatment options in the management and timing of surgical intervention.One hundred forty-seven consecutive patients with acute thoracolumbar fractures and multiple trauma at the authors' hospital between 1988 and 1997 were retrospectively reviewed. The incidence of missed injuries of the thoracolumbar spine and the reasons for the delay in diagnosis were determined. All these patients were observed for a minimum of 3 years after surgery, except four who died during their hospital stay.Delayed diagnosis of thoracolumbar fractures was made in 28 patients (19%). There was an increased incidence of pulmonary complications (p < 0.01) and increased length of hospital stay (p < 0.05) in patients treated nonoperatively compared with patients treated operatively. Although no significant differences in the recovery rate of neurologic function (p > 0.05) were noted between the groups, the surgical patients had highly significantly less pain compared with the nonoperative patients (p < 0.01). The relationship between the timing of thoracolumbar surgery and complications failed to show statistical significance (p > 0.05). Neither the severity of injury nor the timing of surgery had any significant effect on the recovery rate (p > 0.05).Patients with blunt trauma caused by high-energy impact injuries are much more likely to have thoracolumbar fractures even if injuries elsewhere have been noted. Further radiographic studies of the thoracolumbar spine should be performed if there is any question related to a thorough and systematic examination. Choice of treatment options of thoracolumbar fractures in patients with multiple injuries is not different from that in patients with no associated injuries to other systems. Appropriate timing of thoracolumbar fracture fixation in patients with multiple injuries should not be dependent on a rigid protocol.