Prevalence and correlates of vertebral fractures in adults with cystic fibrosis. Osteoporosis associated with cystic fibrosis (CF) is becoming increasingly important as the life expectancy of patients continues to increase.We studied 191 adults with CF (18-50 years old 100 men, 91 women). Total body, lumbar spine, and total proximal femur bone mineral density (BMD) were measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, and lateral spinal radiographs were taken for assessment of vertebral fractures. A range of anthropometric, clinical and biochemical variables were evaluated as potential correlates.BMD T score values at the lumbar spine lower than -2.5 SD were observed in 27.3% and 11.2% of male and female patients, respectively. These proportions fell to 14% and 9.9% for total hip and 10.4% and 12.1% for total body, in men and women, respectively. Vertebral deformities were identified in 26.7% of the patients with a slightly higher prevalence in males (32%) than in females (21%, P = 0.058). Multiple vertebral deformities were observed in 12% and 7.7% of men and women, respectively. BMD values were significantly related to body weight, FEV1, age of puberty and occasionally to cumulative steroid dose in both genders. BMD values were also significantly related with serum albumin, IgG and cholinesterase. Serum estradiol levels were found below the normal range in 23% of the women and 27% of the men, and was significantly related to femur BMD values in both women and men. Significantly lower serum estradiol and free testosterone levels were observed in men with vertebral fractures. Serum osteocalcin was below the normal range in 36% and urinary deoxypyridinoline above the normal range in 51% of the patients.This study indicates that osteoporosis is a common complication of CF, being related to disease progression and apparently due to both excess bone resorption and inadequate bone formation. Estradiol deficiency may have a significant role in the pathogenesis in both genders. Vertebral fracture prevalence is high and greater than expected from prevalent BMD values.