A new clinical evaluation for hysterical paralysis. A cross-sectional study was performed to elucidate the usefulness of a new clinical evaluation, and a prospective study was performed to detect hysterical paralysis using this evaluation method.To make a correct diagnosis of hysterical paralysis, a new clinical evaluation was developed.Hysterical paralysis is a conversion disorder. Its diagnosis must be ruled out when encountering a patient with paralysis, therefore imaging and electrophysiological studies are often necessary, but costly. The principal salient diagnostic features for diagnosing hysterical paralysis are thought to be the preservation of a normal reflex pattern, normal rectal sensation, and normal bladder and bowel functions however, these features are not always successfully identified.A new clinical evaluation named the "Spinal Injuries Center" test was developed. The lower extremities of the patients were divided into two groups as follows: in group A, the patients were able to lift up the knee in group B, the patients were unable to lift up the knee. The 96 legs of the 48 patients who had obvious myelomalacia were randomly chosen. All legs were investigated using the Spinal Injuries Center test, and the association between each group and the Spinal Injuries Center test was examined. The 28 legs of the 14 patients in whom hysterical paralysis was diagnosed were prospectively evaluated using the Spinal Injuries Center test, and the association between the groups and the Spinal Injuries Center test was examined.Forty-eight legs were classified as group A, and 48 legs were classified as group B. In group A, 45 legs were judged to be positive for the Spinal Injuries Center test, and 3 legs were negative. In group B, 1 leg was judged to be positive for the Spinal Injuries Center test, and 47 legs were negative. All legs of the patients with hysterical paralysis were classified as group B however, all legs were positive for the Spinal Injuries Center test.The Spinal Injuries Center test is a new clinical evaluation method that can help make a correct diagnosis of hysterical paralysis. When a patient is unable to lift up his knees by himself, the result of the Spinal Injuries Center test is considered to be positive, and hysterical paralysis is diagnosed in such patients. The diagnosis of hysterical paralysis must be ruled out when encountering patients with paralysis, and as a result, imaging and electrophysiological studies are often necessary. Unfortunately, such tests are costly. Thus, a new clinical evaluation for the diagnosis of hysterical paralysis, named the Spinal Injuries Center test, was developed. When patients who are unable to lift up their knees by themselves test positive using the Spinal Injuries Center test, then they are considered to have ether hysterical or simulated paralysis.