Surgical correction of scoliosis in pediatric patients with cerebral palsy using the unit rod instrumentation. Retrospective clinical and radiographic consecutive case series of 2 surgeons.The purpose of this study was to present a large consecutive series of patients with cerebral palsy who were treated with the Unit rod instrumentation at a single institution. The goal was to report the incidence of surgical complications, degree of deformity correction, reoperation rate, prevalence of pseudarthrosis, and the caretakers' perceived outcome.Children with cerebral palsy frequently develop scoliosis that requires surgical correction. Segmental instrumentation has been the primary mode of treatment. There are no reported large series with long-term follow up.This study was a retrospective review of 287 children treated with the Unit rod instrumentation. This instrumentation with fusion included the whole spine (between C7 and T3 into the pelvis) with 242 posterior-only and 45 anterior-posterior procedures. Of this group, 241 patients were observed for more than 2 years. This review focused on the rate of complications and radiographic outcome of the treatment. Parent and caretaker interviews were conducted to define perceived functional outcome after surgery.Scoliosis was corrected from a mean of 76 degrees to 25 degrees (68%). Pelvic obliquity was corrected from a mean of 17 degrees to 5 degrees (71%). In posterior-only procedures the average blood loss was 2.8 L, ICU stay was 4.9 days, and the hospital stay was 19.6 days. In combined procedures, the average blood loss was 3.4 L, ICU stay was 6.7 days, and the hospital stay was 24.5 days. Major complications included 3 perioperative deaths, 18 deep wound infections [12 early deep infections in a total of 287 patients (4.2%) 6 late deep infections in a total of 236 patients (2.5%)], and 2 patients with septicemia who recovered after prolonged antibiotic management. Caretakers' survey reported a 96% satisfaction rate.The Unit rod instrumentation is a common standard technique and the primary instrumentation system for the treatment of pediatric patients with cerebral palsy and neuromuscular scoliosis because it is simple to use, it is considerably less expensive than most other systems, and can achieve good deformity correction with a low loss of correction, as well as a low prevalence of associated complications and a low reoperation rate.