Conservative management of thoracolumbar and lumbar spine compression and burst fractures: functional and radiographic outcomes in 136 cases treated by closed reduction and casting. Both fractures of the lumbar spine and at the thoracolumbar junction are quite common. The treatment of these fracture types is discussed controversially. Some authors advocate surgical treatment even in fractures without neurologic compromise while other series report good results after non-operative treatment.Between January 1997 and April 2004, 324 patients with spinal fractures were admitted to our institution. Hundred and thirty-six patients with compression and burst type fractures treated by closed reduction and casting were available for follow-up. Their medical records, radiographs and computer tomography scans were reviewed and their functional status was assessed.94 male (69.1%) and 42 female (30.9%) patients with a mean age of 48.6 years (range 17-81) at time of injury were included. The thoracolumbar junction (T11-L1) was affected in 104 patients (76.5%). 23.5% had lumbar fractures. All of the burst type fractures with involvement of the posterior column affection were type A3.3. fractures according to the Magerl classification. Significant correction of radiographic parameters was achieved in the early postreduction period (P < 0.0001). Reduction could not be maintained at the final follow-up but still showed slight improvement compared to the initial presentation. Reduction could be maintained better in the thoracolumbar region than in the lumbar spine. Neurologic function was restored in all patients with unilateral radicular pain but only one patient recovered fully after cauda equina-syndrome. Patients after lumbar spine indicated a higher level of pain when compared to patients with fractures at the thoracolumbar junction.Closed reduction and casting is a safe and effective method for treatment of compression and burst type fractures at the thoracolumbar junction and can restore neurologic function in patients with unilateral radicular pain. It is of limited value in lumbar fractures and in burst type fractures with posterior column involvement.