Anterior osteosynthesis of odontoid fractures. PURPOSE OF THE STUDY The conservative treatment of an odontoid fracture with immobilization in a halo-vest or collar often results in pseudoarthrosis. Therefore, surgical treatment is preferred, and the Magerl-Böhler anterior osteosynthesis of the C2 dens is one of the options for achieving good bony union. The aim of this study was to show that the success of reducing an odontoid fracture is related to the direction of fracture lines and that of displacement, and that anterior osteosynthesis of the C2 dens provides sufficient stability when fixed either with one or two screws. MATERIAL Patients treated for odontoid fracture at the Department of Neurosurgery, Teaching Hospital of the Faculty of Medicine, Palacky University in Olomouc, were followed up and prospectively evaluated. From February 1994 to October 2006, 50 patients between 17 and 98 years of age (average age, 51.16 years) underwent surgery by the Magerl-Böhler method. Of them, 40 were men (average age, 46.0 years) and 10 were women (average age, 71.8 years). The minimum follow-up period was 1 year. METHODS In each patient, X-ray examination of the upper cervical spine in antero-posterior and lateral projections was done and a CT scan of the C2 vertebra was obtained. The radiographs were evaluated for location of the fracture, direction of the fracture line and direction of dens displacement. The fracture was then categorized according to the conventional classifications of Anderson- D'Alonzo (1974), Roy-Camille (1973) and White-Panjabi (1978). The patients with type II and some with type III fractures (shallow type) were indicated for surgery, regardless of fracture line direction and the direction and extent of displacement. Patients suspected of spinal cord injury were immobilized and the fracture was reduced by skull traction as soon as possible after injury. In patients without neurological deficit the fracture was reduced under general anaesthesia before surgery carried out by the Magerl-Böhler method from the anterior approach. The extent of antero-posterior displacement of the odontoid fracture was measured on lateral X-ray images at the first week after surgery and then at complete bony union. The results were statistically evaluated. RESULTS An anatomical position of the dens after reduction was achieved in 18 patients (38 %). In the remaining 32 patients, reduction was not complete but sufficient to permit screw insertion. Fractures with an anterior oblique fracture line were more difficult to reduce than fractures with a posterior oblique or a transverse fracture line. The average displacement values following reduction of the fractures were as follows: anterior displacement of 3.88 mm posterior displacement of 1.86 mm