Clinical and radiographic outcomes of pedicle screw fixation for upper thoracic spine (T1-5) fractures: a retrospective cohort study of 27 cases. The use of pedicle screws (PSs) for stabilization of unstable thoracolumbar fractures has become the standard of care, but PS efficacy has not been reported in the upper thoracic spine. The primary outcome of this study was to determine the efficacy of PS fixation to achieve and maintain reduction of unstable upper thoracic spine fractures (T1-5). Secondary outcomes included scores on a 1-year postoperative generic health-related quality of life (QOL) questionnaire and postoperative complications.This study was a retrospective analysis and cross-sectional outcome assessment of cases prospectively entered into a spine database from 1997 to 2004. All patients with a traumatic, unstable upper thoracic spine (T1-5) fracture who underwent PS fixation were included. Preoperative CT scans with sagittal plane reformatted images were used to determine kyphotic deformity and compared with immediate postoperative and latest follow-up radiographs or CT scans. Patient charts, operative notes, and the results of postoperative follow-up examinations were reviewed. Patients were mailed the Short Form-36v2 (SF-36 version 2) by an independent study coordinator.Cases involving 27 patients (23 male, 4 female) were evaluated. The patients' mean age was 39.9 years (range 16-73 years). In all, 251 PSs were passed between T-1 and T-8. The mean true kyphotic deformity was 18.2 degrees preoperatively, 8.7 degrees (p < 0.0005) initially postoperatively, and 10.1 degrees at final follow-up (mean 2.3 years postoperatively). The mean SF-36 physical component summary score was 35.89 while the mental component summary score was 56.43 at a minimum of 1-year postoperatively (mean 3.2 years). There were no intraoperative vascular or neural complications.In the hands of fellowship-trained spinal surgeons, PS fixation for reduction and stabilization of upper thoracic spine fractures is a safe and efficacious technique. Health-related QOL outcome data are deficient for spine trauma patients and should be an essential component of quantifying treatment outcomes.