Posttraumatic spinal cord tethering and syringomyelia: surgical treatment and long-term outcome. Permanent neurological loss after spinal cord injury (SCI) is a well-known phenomenon. There has also been a growing recognition and improved understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms of late progressive neurological loss, which may occur after SCI as a result of posttraumatic spinal cord tethering (SCT), myelomalacia, and syringomyelia. A clinical study of 404 patients sustaining traumatic SCIs and undergoing surgery to arrest a progressive myelopathy caused by SCT, with or without progressive myelomalacia and cystic cavitation (syringomyelia) was undertaken. Both objective and subjective long-term outcomes were evaluated. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first series of this size correlating long-term patient perception of outcome with long-term objective outcome analyses.During the period from January 1993 to November 2003, 404 patients who had previously sustained traumatic SCIs underwent 468 surgeries for progressive myelopathies attributed to tethering of the spinal cord to the surrounding spinal canal, with or without myelomalacia and syrinx formation. Forty-two patients were excluded because of additional pathological entities that were known to contribute to a progressive myelopathy. All surgeries were performed by the same neurosurgeon at a single SCI treatment center and by using a consistent surgical technique of spinal cord detethering, expansion duraplasty, and when indicated, cyst shunting.Outcome data were collected up to 12 years postoperatively. Comparisons of pre- and postoperative American Spinal Injury Association sensory and motor index scores showed no significant change when only a single surgery was required (86% of patients). An outcome questionnaire and phone interview resulted in > 90% of patients self-assessing arrest of functional loss > 50% of patients self-assessing improvement of functionSurgery for spinal cord detethering, expansion duraplasty, and when indicated, cyst shunting, is a successful treatment strategy for arresting a progressive myelopathy related to posttraumatic SCT and syringomyelia. Results suggest that surgery leads to functional return in ~ 50% of patients, and that in some patients posttraumatic SCT limits maximal recovery of spinal cord function postinjury. A patient's perception of surgery's failure to arrest the progressive myelopathy corresponds closely with the need for repeat surgery because of retethering, cyst reexpansion, and pseudomeningocele formation.