Ongoing walking recovery 2 years after locomotor training in a child with severe incomplete spinal cord injury. The authors previously reported on walking recovery in a nonambulatory child with chronic, severe, incomplete cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) after 76 sessions of locomotor training (LT). Although clinical measures did not predict his recovery, reciprocal patterned leg movements developed, affording recovery of independent walking with a reverse rolling walker. The long-term functional limitations and secondary complications often associated with pediatric-onset SCI necessitate continued follow-up of children with SCI. Therefore, the purpose of this case report is to describe this child's walking function and musculoskeletal growth and development during the 2 years since his participation in an LT program and subsequent walking recovery.Following LT, the child attended elementary school as a full-time ambulator. He was evaluated 1 month (baseline), 1 year, and 2 years after LT. Examination of walking function included measures of walking independence, gait speed and spatiotemporal parameters, gait kinematics, and daily step activity. Growth and development were assessed by tracking his height, weight, incidence of musculoskeletal complications, and gross motor task performance.Over the 2 years, the child continued to ambulate independently with a reverse rolling walker, increasing his fastest gait speed. Spatiotemporal and kinematic features of his walking improved, and daily step activity increased. Height and weight remained on their preinjury trajectory and within age-appropriate norms. The child experienced only minor musculoskeletal complications. Additionally, he gained the ability to use reciprocal patterned leg movements during locomotor tasks such as assisted stair climbing and independent tricycle pedaling.Two years after recovery of walking, this child with incomplete SCI had maintained and improved his walking function and experienced age-appropriate growth and development.