Posterior realignment of irreducible atlantoaxial dislocation with C1-C2 screw and rod system: a technique of direct reduction and fixation. Treatment of chronic and irreducible atlantoaxial dislocation (AAD) with ventral compression is challenging for surgeons. The main procedures are occipitocervical/C1-C2 fusion after transoral odontoidectomy or release of the periodontoid tissues. These surgical procedures, which are performed simultaneously or intermittently, have many disadvantages that may discount their effectiveness. Therefore, a more effective way to achieve surgical reduction and to keep solid stability with only a single procedure is needed.We describe a technique to reduce chronic and irreducible AAD with C1 lateral mass and C2 pedicle screw and rod system.This was a retrospective case series.Our sample comprised 26 patients (9 men and 17 women) with irreducible AAD who ranged in age from 15 to 54 years (mean, 35 years).Patients' neurologic status was evaluated with the Japanese Orthopedic Association (JOA) scale.Twenty-six symptomatic patients underwent posterior realignment and reduction through the C1 lateral mass and C2 pedicle screw and rod system. The proposed mechanism of reduction is that the implanted screws and rods between C1 and C2 acting as a lever system drew C1 backward and pushed C2 downward and forward after removing circumambient obstruction and scars and thoroughly releasing the facet joints. The preoperative and postoperative JOA score, the extent of reduction, and the conditions of C1-C2 bony fusion were examined.No neurovascular injury occurred during surgery. Follow-up ranged from 6 to 40 months (mean 20.7 months). Radiographic evaluation showed that solid bony fusion was achieved in all patients, and that complete reduction was attained in 18 patients and partial reduction (>60% reduction) in 8 patients. The mean postoperative JOA score at last follow-up was 15.7, compared with the preoperative score of 12.1 (p<.01).This C1-C2 screw and rod system provides reliable stability and sufficient reduction of the anatomic malalignment at the craniovertebral junction and meanwhile retains the mobility of atlanto-occipital joints in the treatment of chronic and irreducible AAD. Sophisticated skills, thorough release of the facet joints, and intraoperative protection of the vertebral artery are key points to accomplish this technique.