Infant lesion effect: I. Development of motor behavior following neonatal spinal cord damage in cats. This study was undertaken to determine the effect of spinal cord damage on motor development, and to determine whether there is greater survival of motor function in those motor patterns with a later onset of function than in those which are present at birth. The postnatal development of postural reflexes and locomotion was examined during the first 4 months of life in normal kittens and in those which had received a spinal cord lesion (at high cervical or low thoracic levels) at birth. The results suggest that there are some similarities in normal development, recovery of function after adult lesions and recovery and/or development of function after neonatal lesions. After neonatal lesions, just as after lesions in adults, reflex recovery appears to underlie recovery of locomotion. After spinal lesions, the pattern and sequence of motor development was identical to that seen in normal animals. Hindlimb motor development was normal for some time after the spinal lesion, but deficits appeared later. These observations suggest that postural reflexes and locomotion are not dependent upon ipsilateral descending input for their onset, but only for their maturation. Unexpectedly, tactile placing developed after neonatal spinal cord lesions. This represents sparing of function, for tactile placing is abolished and does not recover after the same lesion sustained in adulthood. Tactile placing is the last of the series of postural reflexes to develop. It depends on the last of the spinal pathways to develop, the corticospinal tract. Two aspects of this study support the hypothesis that later developing motor patterns will have a greater chance for survival and subsequent development than those which are present at birth. First, the immediate effects of spinal cord lesions on postural reflexes are more severe on those reflexes that are more mature at birth. Second, the spinal cord lesions produce more severe impairment of the more mature forelimb motor function than of the less mature hindlimb motor function. The hypothesis is not supported, however, when the long-term effect of spinal cord lesions on the maturation of motor behavior is considered. All postural reflexes and locomotion fail to mature fully, i.e. they retain characteristics of the immature responses.