Cervicomedullary compression in achondroplasia. Six patients with achondroplasia and symptoms suggestive of cervicomedullary junction compression are reviewed these included three females and three males, with an average age of 8 years (range 7 months to 30 years). The mean duration of symptoms prior to intervention was 1.9 years. Symptoms included occipitocervical pain, ataxia, incontinence, apnea, and respiratory arrest. Radiological investigations consisted of plain films with flexion and extension views, pluridirectional tomography, thin-section computerized tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging. Typical findings included marked foramen magnum stenosis, ventrolateral cervicomedullary junction compression secondary to central and paramesial basilar invagination, and dorsal cervicomedullary junction compression secondary to ligamentous hypertrophy and invagination of the posterior atlantal arch. All patients underwent posterior fossa decompression and atlantal laminectomy. Surgery consistently revealed marked dorsal and paramesial overgrowth of the rim of the rim of the foramen magnum, with thickening and invagination of the atlantal posterior arch and a dense fibrotic epidural band resulting in dorsal cervicomedullary compression. Intraoperative ultrasonography was used to determine the extent of decompression required. Three patients required duraplasty. Three patients had concurrent hydrocephalus, two of whom had undergone ventriculoperitoneal shunting prior to surgical decompression of the posterior fossa. One patient developed a pseudomeningocele postoperatively, requiring serial lumbar punctures before it resolved. No patient developed craniovertebral instability following decompression. Improvement or resolution of symptoms was noted in all patients, with an average follow-up period of 4.8 years. Thus, cervicomedullary compression in patients with achondroplasia can be successfully treated with dorsal decompression of the craniovertebral junction. Dense epidural fibrotic bands are frequently noted in these cases and must be aggressively released to ensure satisfactory decompression.