Complex injuries of the spine. 3 different types of complex spinal trauma are defined: Type I means a multilevel contiguous or non contiguous unstable injury, type II is described as a spinal injury with concomitant thoracic or abdominal lesion, type III stands for the coincidence of spinal injury and polytrauma. Overlapping of different types occurs. Type I: The incidence amounts according a german multicenter study to about 2.5%. Multilevel injuries need to be stabilized for a long distance from posterior. With a thorough analysis the segments to be fused are determined. Type II: The leading thoracic injury is a lung contusion which occurs in up to 50% of the cases. A CT scan of the thorax during the first diagnostic screening is recommended. Early reduction and stabilization from posterior should be aimed at. During the first two weeks anterior procedures are contraindicated. Abdominal injuries are to be found in 3-4% of all spinal injuries. All organs could be affected. A typical constallation is the "seat-belt syndrome" with lesions of the upper abdominal organs and a flexiondistraction injury of the upper lumbar spine. The main problem is to make the diagnosis of both components initially. Most of the patients may be treated in one operation by first taking care of the abdominal injury and than stabilizing the spine. The prognosis of this combination is favorable. Type III: In 17-18% of all polytraumatized patients lesions of the spine are to be diagnosed. From these only one third need surgical care. From 680 patients with operatively treated fractures of the thoracolumbar junction 6.2% were polytraumatized according to the multicenter study mentioned above. The risk of missing a spinal injury in polytrauma totals approximately 20%. Surgical stabilization should be performed in the primary phase (day-1-surgery). Additional injuries, potentially time consuming operations with a high blood loss sometimes necessitate a different approach. Non stabilized spinal injuries apparently do not have the same negative effect on the whole organism as long bone fractures. In the early phase of treatment on the C-spine only anterior procedures and on the thoracolumbar spine only posterior techniques should be applied.