Injuries in the adolescent porcine spine exposed to mechanical compression. An experimental porcine study in which functional lumbar spinal units were tested in compression to failure. Biomechanical, radiographic, magnetic resonance imaging, and histological characteristics are described.To explain the different patterns of injury seen in adults and adolescents resulting from traumatic injury to the vertebrae and to explain the mechanism behind traumatic displacement of the ring apophysis seen in athletes.Recent investigations of the spine in adolescent who have sustained trauma have shown injuries to the growth zone, whereas studies of adults have shown injuries to the vertebral body. A higher frequency of abnormalities in the discs, the vertebral bodies, the endplates, and the ring apophyses has been demonstrated in athletes with high loads on the spine. There is controversy over the etiology of these changes.Twelve functional lumbar spinal units (vertebra-disc-vertebra) obtained from six young male pigs were tested in compression to failure. All units were examined with plain radiography and magnetic resonance imaging before and after compression. After the compression, histologic samples were taken from the injury site.Identical traumatic changes were seen in all functional lumbar spinal units, i.e., fracture in the endplate through the growth zone posteriorly and displacement of the anulus fibrosus with a bony fragment at the point of insertion of the vertebra. The nucleus pulposus was ruptured and displaced through the fracture line in all cases. The injuries were not seen on radiographs but were detected on magnetic resonance images, as confirmed on microscopic and histologic examination.This study shows that the weakest part of the lumbar spine of the juvenile pig, when compressed, is the growth zone and the junction between the point of insertion of the anulus fibrosus and the vertebra. This location of weakness may explain the high frequency of disc degeneration and "persisting apophysis" seen in the spine of athletes.