Factors seen as possible links to posttubal ligation syndrome. Dr. Herbert B. Peterson of the Center for Disease Control (CDC) recently reported at a conference at Emory University in Atlanta that research now indicates 2 new hypotheses for the genesis of posttubal ligation syndrome.  When 2 groups of women, both with histories of menstrual problems, were compared over time, those who had not undergone tubal ligation had fewer menstrual problems than women who had.  That fact suggests that preexisting menstrual problems can be aggravated by tubal sterilization.  In addition, posttubal ligation syndrome could be related to performance of sterilization shortly after delivery.  3 primary types of evidence -- clinical, laboratory, and epidemiologic -- used to support the conclusion that posttubal ligation syndrome does exist deserve further investigation.  Clinical evidence is the most easily observable by health care providers but may be unreliable.  The relationship between age and posttubal ligation syndrome has not been strictly established.  According to Peterson, 10 years following sterilization, women may be experiencing mesntrual problems because of time passage alone.  Additionally, about 30% of American women have used oral contraceptives (OCs) up to the time of the procedure.  Possibly mesntrual complaints after sterilization in such cases can be attributed to cessation of OC use rather than to tubal ligation.  Laboratory data documenting functional, anatomic, and hormonal changes after posttubal ligation are vague.  Several recent studies involving such data do add "biologic plausibility" to certain hypotheses.  A unifying hypothesis to account for disturbances in ovarian function is that tubal ligation results in destruction of the uterovarian blood supply.  Different methods of fallopian tube occlusion destroy different parts of the tube and the tube's blood supply.  A 2nd hypothesis is that certain types of tubal occlusion are more likely than others to result in endometriosis, which can affect menstrual function.  The 3rd hypothesis is that tubal sterilization may cause an estrogen-progesterone imbalance.  Epidemiologic data obtained from shortterm studies fail to support the existence of posttubal ligation syndrome.  According to Peterson, women who did not have adverse bleeding before sterilization were more likely to have adverse bleeding problems than the unsterilized women.  Adverse bleeding was even more pervasive among the sterilized group in the longterm results.  Further studies should investigate 2 possibilities:  that posttubal ligation syndrome is related to a preexisting adverse menstrual condition that fails to improve and that symptom severity may be pregnancy related.