Expression of matrix metalloproteinase-1 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 in human and nude mouse ectopic endometrium and the effect of estrogen and progestin on their expression. To explore the roles of matrix metalloproteinase-1(MMP-1) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1(TIMP-1) in the pathogenesis of endometriosis and the effects of estrogen and progestin on their expression.Immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR were employed to detect the expression of MMP-1 and TIMP-1 in the ectopic tissues of 35 patients with endometriosis, 22 eutopic endometrium tissues from women with endometriosis and 28 normal controls. Fifty-nine nude mice were injected with human late secretory endometrial chippings and randomized into estrogen group, progestin group, estrogen-progestin group and control group with corresponding treatments. The implantation rates and graft morphology were observed and MMP-1 and TIMP-1 expressions in the grafts detected by immunohistochemistry.Typical endometrial glands and stroma were observed in all the groups with comparable implantation rates. The administration of progestin was associated with multiple peritoneal implantation sites and significantly larger implants. The transplanted endometria showed proliferative or secretory changes with estrogen or progestin administration. MMP-1 expression significantly increased and TIMP-1 expression decreased with increased MMP-1/TIMP-1 ratio in human and nude mouse ectopic endometria in comparison with those in normal endometria (P<0.05, P<0.01). MMP-1 expression was higher in estrogen and estrogen-progestin groups than in the control group, and was lower in the 3 sexual hormone-treated groups than in the control group. MMP-1 mRNA expression in the eutopic endometrium was significantly higher than that in the normal endometria.Progestrin can not inhibit MMP-1 expression or the effect of estrogen on ectopic endometrium known as progestin resistance. The high expression of MMP-1 and low expression of TIMP-1 in endometriotic tissues confer strong invasiveness of ectopic endometrial tissue, especially in eutopic endometrial tissue, and may play an important role in the pathogenesis of endometriosis.