Adjunctive treatment of GnRHa combined wenshen xiaozheng decoction in treating endometriosis after laparoscopy: a clinical observation. To observe the therapeutic efficacy and safety of gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRHa) combined Wenshen Xiaozheng Decoction (WXD) in auxiliary treating endometriosis after laparoscopy.One hundred and thirty-four endometriosis patients with confirmative pathological diagnosis were assigned to three groups depending on whether they would receive adjuvant therapy or Chinese medicine treatment, i.e., the control group, the observation 1 group, and the observation 2 group. The 22 patients in the control group received no adjuvant therapy after laparoscopy. The 42 patients in the observation 1 group were treated with GnRHa 3.6 mg by subcutaneous injection starting from the 1st day to the 5th day of menstruation, once per 28 days. The 70 patients in the observation 2 group were treated with GnRHa 3.6 mg by subcutaneous injection in combination with WXD starting from the 1st day to the 5th day of menstruation, once per 28 days. They also took WXD for 7 doses, one cycle per every 28 days. The treatment lasted for three to six months. Serum levels of estradiol (E2), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), and cancer antigen 125 (CA125), as well as clinical efficacy, and adverse drug reactions were observed before and after treatment.There was statistical difference in serum levels of E2, FSH, or LH between the control group and the observation 1 and 2 groups (P < 0.05). There was no statistical difference in serum levels of E2, FSH, or LH between the observation 1 group and the observation 2 group (P > 0.05). There was statistical difference in the clinical efficiency among the 3 groups (P < 0.05). There was statistical difference in the pre-post difference of CA125 levels among the three groups (P < 0.01). Compared with the control group, there was no statistical difference in the pre-post difference of CA125 levels between the observation 1 group and the observation 2 group (P > 0.05). No obvious adverse reaction occurred during the treatment.GnRHa combined WXD showed confirmative clinical efficacy in treating endometriosis after laparoscopy. It also could lower serum levels of E2, FSH, and LH levels. So it was an ideal solution for treatment of endometriosis.