Detection and assessment of myocardial stunning with perfusion tomographic scintigraphy using gated SPECT. Gated-SPECT using 99mTc-labeled flow tracers provides the simultaneous assessment of global and regional myocardial perfusion and function. The aim of this study was to identify patients with stress-induced postischemic stunning, among those with reversible stress perfusion defects, and patients with artifactual defects among those with fixed defects, in order to assess the value of the functional data provided by gated acquisition of perfusion imaging in the characterization of ischemia.We studied 221 consecutive patients who underwent conventional diagnostic dual day stress/rest gated-SPECT following injection of 925 MBq of 99mTc-tetrofosmin using a dual head SPECT camera, 115 of whom (52%) showed reversible perfusion defects, and 66 (30%) fixed defects. Perfusion was analyzed on ungated images using 20 segments scored on a 5-point scale (0 = normal, 4 = no uptake), while wall thickening was assessed visually on stress/rest end-systolic images using a 4-point score (0 = normal, 3 = absence of wall thickening). Left ventricular ejection fraction and volumes were calculated using an automatic algorithm (quantitative gated-SPECT). Fifty-two out of 221 (23.5%) patients underwent coronary angiography.In 40/115 (35%) patients with reversible perfusion defects, post-stress left ventricular ejection fraction was > 5% lower than that at rest (Group A: stunned), whereas in the remaining 75 patients, post-stress left ventricular ejection fraction was either +/- 5% or greater than that at rest (Group B: non-stunned). Peak exercise angina and ischemic electrocardiographic response to exercise were present in 79 and 58% respectively of Group A patients and in 33 and 39% of Group B patients. The number of patients with multivessel disease was significantly higher in Group A compared to Group B (58 vs 41%, p < 0.05). The total stress and rest perfusion scores were significantly higher in Group A than in Group B (p < 0.01) even the total stress wall thickening score was significantly higher in Group A (p < 0.001). As for global parameters, post-stress end-systolic volume was significantly higher in the stunned group (p < 0.05). In 40 out of 66 (60.5%) patients without reversible ischemia fixed defects were judged to be ischemic (Group C), while in 26/66 (39.5%) they were attributed to attenuation artifacts (Group D). Eighty percent of Group C patients had a previous myocardial infarction against none of Group D. Stress/rest perfusion and wall thickening scores were significantly higher in Group C than in Group D.Gated-SPECT myocardial perfusion evaluation allowed us to identify a subgroup of post-stress stunned coronary artery diseased patients. The post-stress left ventricular ejection fraction reduction in this population seems to be due to the increase in end-systolic volume. The stunned patients showed more severe perfusion defects and wall thickening abnormalities.