Initial evaluation of the feasibility of single photon emission tomography with p-[123 I]iodo-L-phenylalanine for routine brain tumour imaging. p-[123I]iodo-L-phenylalanine (IPA) is a recently described radiopharmaceutical which is highly accumulated in gliomas. The present investigation was designed to evaluate the feasibility of single photon emission tomography (SPET) with IPA to image brain tumours under routine clinical conditions. Using a dual- and a triple-headed SPET camera, whole-body kinetic and brain SPET, as well as plasma, urinary and dosimetric analysis were determined in four patients with gliomas after intravenous injection of IPA. Results obtained by IPA SPET were retrospectively compared with histopathology, magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose. Tumour lesions were clearly demonstrated by IPA SPET at 30 min, 1h and 4.5h post-injection, even in patients with low grade gliomas. In patients with glioblastoma, excellent visualization of the tumour was possible even at 7h p.i., indicative of the high retention of the radiopharmaceutical in cerebral gliomas. Analysis of the radioactivity in plasma and urine attested to the high in vivo stability of IPA. Blood clearance was rapid (> 65% after 10 min) and IPA was excreted predominantly by the kidneys, the urinary radioactivity excretion ranging from 27% at 1h to 54% of injected doses at 5h p.i. The average effective dose for adults was estimated to be 0.0152mSv*MBq(-1), leading to an effective dose of 3.8mSv in a typical brain SPET investigation with 250 MBq IPA. This result strongly suggests that IPA is a potentially valuable brain tumour imaging agent for widespread clinical studies with SPET. Its high specific tumour uptake and retention even in low grade gliomas represent a major advantage compared to presently available SPET radiopharmaceuticals. Moreover, the radiation dose estimates indicate that clinical use of IPA will result in acceptable radiation dose levels in humans.