Abnormal 201Tl myocardial single photon emission computed tomography in energetic male patients with myocardial bridge. Myocardial bridge is a relatively benign condition where a major coronary artery is bridged by a band of muscle and narrows during systole, particularly during rapid heart rates. Its clinical presentation and electrocardiogram (ECG) changes overlap with that of coronary artery disease. 201Tl myocardial perfusion imaging is thus frequently prescribed for further evaluation. This retrospective study was carried out to determine the 201Tl image patterns in patients with myocardial bridge. A total of 17 male patients (aged from 30 to 63 years) who had a positive exercise ECG and angiographic evidence of myocardial bridge in the mid-third of the left anterior descending coronary artery were recruited. Most of them were robust and received routine physical check-ups. They had no known heart disease or medication that affected cardiac function. The patients' clinical presentations, echocardiograph and exercise ECG findings were analysed. 201Tl single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was performed by intravenous injection of 201Tl (111 MBq) immediately following stress (treadmill or dipyridamole induced) and 4 h after stress, using a fixed, right angle camera equipped with a low energy, general purpose collimator. The images were interpreted independently by two experienced nuclear medicine physicians. Nine of the 17 patients had anterior chest pain during exercise. All patients had an abnormal ECG during exercise, including ST-T wave depression in leads II, III and aVF, and v4-6. Except for eight patients revealing reversible perfusion defect (R), 16 of the 17 patients also exhibited a partial reversible perfusion defect (PR) or a significant reverse redistribution (RR) scan pattern in the anterior or inferior walls of the left ventricle. Myocardial bridge should be taken into consideration in energetic male patients who had abnormal exercise ECGs and the corresponding patterns of Tl SPECT abnormalities including R, PR and RR.