Task-related activity in prefrontal cortex and its relation to recognition memory performance in young and old adults. Older adults often have more widespread prefrontal cortex (PFC) activation during memory retrieval tasks, compared to young adults, particularly in the left hemisphere. Recruitment of additional frontal activity in older adults has been attributed by some researchers to compensation, perhaps for reduced activity elsewhere in the brain, whereas others have described it as a non-selective response that may be due to a failure to inhibit these PFC regions. To address further the impact of PFC activity on memory in older adults, we used PET to measure brain activity during recognition memory tasks. Both young and old adults showed increased activity during recognition, compared to a control task, in bilateral PFC. Young adults showed greater activation of left hippocampus and lateral temporal cortex during recognition, whereas older adults showed greater activity in the right inferior frontal gyrus. Age differences also were seen in correlations between brain activity and memory performance. There were positive correlations between activity in the right parahippocampal gyrus and recognition performance in young adults, whereas positive correlations between activity in PFC and performance were found only in older adults. These positive correlations included the right inferior PFC region where older adults had greater activation. Activity in this right PFC region was negatively correlated with medial temporal activity in both groups. These results provide further evidence for age-specific patterns of brain activity underlying memory performance and are consistent with the idea that PFC assumes a larger role in supporting successful recognition memory with increasing age. The negative correlation between activity in PFC and medial temporal regions, as well as the age differences in how these regions were related to behavior, suggest that those older individuals who recruit PFC to a greater degree may do so as a compensatory response to reductions in medial temporal regions.