The cancer and leukemia group B pharmacology and experimental therapeutics committee: a historical perspective. The Chemotherapy Committee of Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) was established in the mid-1970s to assemble a group of experts in cancer chemotherapy and pharmacology who could advise the CALGB disease committees about the optimal use of drugs in the fight against cancer and to provide quality assurance for the chemotherapy section of CALGB protocols. Chaired initially by Edward Henderson and then David Van Echo, the committee was also the repository of studies in diseases for which CALGB did not have a formal committee, such as testis cancer and sarcoma. In 1990, following the appointment of Richard Schilsky as Chair, the name of the committee was changed to the Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics (PET) Committee to reflect a more specific focus and scientific agenda (i.e., studies of chemotherapy pharmacology and development of new agents). Three PET Committee reference pharmacology laboratories (led by Merrill Egorin, Tony Miller, and Mark Ratain) were established to measure drug concentrations in biological fluids and to perform pharmacokinetic analyses. In addition, the PET Committee embarked on a number of multi-institution phase I studies. These phase I studies included studies of special populations, including the first prospective study of an anticancer agent (paclitaxel) in patients with hepatic dysfunction. In addition, the Committee studied a number of phase I combinations destined for phase II evaluation in disease-specific committees. Following Dr. Schilsky's election as CALGB Group Chair in 1994, Mark Ratain took over as Chair of the PET Committee and continued to emphasize population pharmacology as the primary theme of the Committee's research agenda. In addition, the PET Committee began to develop novel clinical trial designs, including the first completed randomized discontinuation trial of an antineoplastic agent. Most recently, the PET Committee has launched an ambitious research program in pharmacogenetics, facilitated in large part through the recruitment of Howard McLeod as Vice Chair. This area of research is a collaborative effort with the NIH Pharmacogenetics Research Network and has the potential to definitively address the hypothesis that germ line polymorphisms are a significant determinant of the toxicity and efficacy of anticancer therapy. It is anticipated that the results of the current studies will contribute significantly to the goal of individualizing cancer treatment.