Recruitment and retention topics for a changing environment in medical imaging. Imaging directors are fighting just to keep the vacuum of a four percent unemployment market and a hungry computer industry from rapidly depleting their technical staff. Many factors have contributed to the current nationwide shortage of radiologic technologists. One is the closure of many hospital and community college-based programs of radiologic technology in the late 1980s and 1990s. The closures were a direct result of problems encountered by new technologists coming into a saturated workforce in the mid 1980s and early 1990s. The exodus of so many potential workers from the profession coincided with the changing perception students had of health careers versus computer technology and other careers. At the same time, the increasing importance of preventive care and diagnostic procedures almost tripled exam volumes. To cope with the increased demand for imaging services, outpatient diagnostic centers popped up. Increased numbers of exams and facilities meant an increased demand for qualified technologists, especially multicompetent technologists. Managed care and capitation demanded that we keep costs down as much as possible. Full-time employees were laid off and found good work at good pay and extraordinary benefits in other industries. New modalities have stretched a thinning labor force even tighter. MRI, PET and others continue to increase the demand for highly trained technologists. Levels of stress at work continue to rise, adding to the exodus of technologists to other careers. In this environment, staffing needs assessment is crucial. Some of the scheduling strategies you can use are: creative use of staff and referring physician preferences, flexible staffing tools and understanding the effect of the capacity of your imaging systems. The tight labor market affects all levels of hiring. But, as urgent as the need to fill openings is, don't make a quick decision to hire. You will live with the consequences. There is no stronger disincentive to your good employees than having to work with "problem children" or failing to discipline those who are not producing. Image and perceptions can have a significant effect on recruiting. How does the public perceive your organization? How does the technical community perceive your department? The current shortage of radiologic technologists and tight labor market require administrators to use all avenues toward improving their departments, retaining valuable employees and offering the most attractive salary and benefit packages to qualified applicants.