Physiologically based model of acute ischemic stroke. In the treatment of acute ischemic stroke most of the clinical trials have failed, contrasting with promising results in the preclinical stages. This continuing discrepancy suggests some misconceptions in the understanding of acute ischemic stroke. One possible method for identifying the shortcomings of present-day approaches is to integrate all the available knowledge into a single mathematical model and to subject that model to challenges via simulations with available experimental data. As a first stage, then, the authors developed a simplified model, defining the structure and the different parameters that represent the phenomena that occur during the hyperacute phase of ischemic stroke. First, the different critical points of the evolution of ischemic stroke, based on the available evidence on the pathophysiology of stroke, were identified. Those key steps were then related to the quantitative data obtained by magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography scan. These two techniques allow the measurement of diverse key markers of cerebral metabolism: cerebral blood flow (CBF), oxygen extraction factor, cerebral metabolism rate of oxygen, and the apparent diffusion coefficient of water, among others. Those markers were organized together through mathematical equations, and changed over time in order to describe the evolution of an acute ischemic stroke. At each time during the evolution of stroke those parameters are summarized in a parameter called survival delay. This parameter made possible the definition of three different states for tissues-functional, infarcted, salvageable-as end point. Once the model was designed, simulations were performed to explore its internal validity. Simulation results were consistent with the reality of acute ischemic stroke and did not reveal any major drawbacks in the use of the model. The more rapid the decrease in CBF, the larger is the final infarcted area. The model also allowed for the characterization of two types of tissue in the penumbra: tissues with an initial metabolic impairment and tissues altered owing to the closeness of the ischemic area. The results of this experiment were consistent with what is known of acute ischemic stroke. The model integrated different markers of acute ischemic stroke into a single entity in order to mimic acute ischemic stroke, and has been shown to have a reasonable degree of internal validity.