Is [18F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG) scintigraphy with non-dedicated positron emission tomography useful in the diagnostic management of suspected metastatic thyroid carcinoma in patients with no detectable radioiodine uptake? Dedifferentiation of thyroid cancer leads to an inability of thyroid cells to concentrate iodine. In these cases, imaging methods that allow an accurate detection of recurrence and/or metastases at an early stage are essential for an adequate management of patients. Positron emission tomography using [18F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose and a dedicated (dPET-FDG) or non-dedicated (nPET-FDG) camera has been suggested as a potential tool for the detection of tumour foci.This prospective study was undertaken to evaluate nPET-FDG in 51 consecutive patients (18 men, 33 women) with differentiated thyroid cancer (33 papillary, 11 follicular, four insular and three oncocytic (Hurthle-cell) thyroid carcinomas). Selection criteria were high thyroglobulin (Tg) levels (>10 ng/ml off-levothyroxine treatment) and no detectable radioiodine uptake, on a whole body scan performed with a high dose, in the absence of iodine contamination.Results were interpreted in terms of assumed presence of tumoral tIssue. Sensitivity of nPET-FDG was similar to that of conventional imaging modalities (67%). False negative nPET-FDG (n=16) were observed mostly in cases of micro-lesions (lymph nodes or lung metastases). Conversely, nPET-FDG identified new tumoral sites in 11 cases. Better sensitivity was found for nPET-FDG in patients with Tg levels higher than 15 microg/l (P<0.05). On a patient basis, results of nPET-FDG were equivalent to that of dPET-FDG. Finally, nPET-FDG changed treatment strategy in seven patients.nPET-FDG has a high sensitivity for the detection of tumour sites in patients when pathological iodine uptake cannot be demonstrated and appears to be a useful method in patients with elevated Tg levels, especially when dedicated PET is either unavailable or impractical.