Cloning of human uracil N-glycosylase and its detection in cancer tissues by quantitative RT-PCR. The uracil in DNA comes from either the misincorporation of dUTP in place of dTTP or deamination of cytosine. In the latter case, it can result in a GC to AT transition mutation if the uracil is not removed before DNA replication. Base excision repair (BER) is a major pathway for removing DNA lesions arising from endogenous processes as well as those induced by exposure to exogenous chemicals or irradiation. BER is initiated by DNA glycosylases that excise aberrant bases from DNA by cleavage of the N-glycosidic bond linking to the base of its deoxyribose sugar. Uracil N-glycosylase (UNG) is the enzyme responsible for the first step in the BER pathway that specifically removes uracil from DNA. The UNG gene undergoes both temporal and spatial regulation mainly at the level of transcription. Normally cancer cells undergo over-proliferation and up-regulate their UNG during tumorigenesis. In this study we examine the correlation between UNG level and carcinogenesis, and explore the possibility of using UNG as a marker for cancer diagnosis. Human UNG gene was amplified from the total RNA of the human choriocarcinoma cell line, JEG-3, by RT-PCR. After purification, the 942bp full-length UNG cDNA coding sequence was digested with EcoR I and Sal I, and cloned into the digested pET-21 to construct a recombinant vector, pUNG. The UNG protein was expressed under the control of T7 promoter in E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells induced with IPTG. After ultrasonic treatment, the cell lysate and precipitate were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and a 39kD band was detected. The plasmid was serially diluted at appropriate concentrations and employed as standards in the subsequent quantification. Total RNAs were extracted from 18 pairs of clinical samples, each pair contains a sample of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) tissue and its surrounding normal esophageal epithelia. The copy numbers of UNG mRNA in these RNA samples were determined by real-time quantitative RT-PCR using a Lightcycler (Roche). UNG was present in 13 cases of ESCC (13/18, n = 18) but absent in all of the normal tissues. The results indicated that there was a correlation between high level of UNG expression and the carcinogenesis of ESCC.