Rationale and design of the 'F.I.R.E.' study. A multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study to measure the effect of FX06 (a fibrin-derived peptide Bbeta(15-42)) on ischemia-reperfusion injury in patients with acute myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention. Immediate reopening of acutely occluded coronary arteries via primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is the treatment of choice to salvage the ischemic myocardium in the setting of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). However, the sudden re-initiation of blood flow achieved with PCI can lead to a local acute inflammatory response with further endothelial and myocardial damage. This phenomenon, described as 'reperfusion injury', has been recognized for several decades, yet no pharmacologic intervention has so far succeeded in reducing myocardial damage linked to reperfusion. FX06 is a naturally occurring peptide derived from the neo-N-terminus of fibrin (Bbeta(15-42)). It prevents leukocyte migration through the gap junctions of endothelial cells. Experimental studies have shown that FX06 inhibits the binding of the proinflammatory fibrin E1 fragment to VE-cadherin expressed in the adherence junction. It represents a novel approach to reducing local and systemic inflammation, including myocardial reperfusion injury, in the adherens junction. The present multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study is designed to test the hypothesis that FX06 injection during and immediately after primary PCI can reduce infarct size in patients with STEMI. The primary outcome measure of efficacy in this study is the degree of myocardial salvage calculated as the difference between the perfusion defect before and after PCI, determined by myocardial perfusion scintigraphy during rest. Further, infarct size at the end of the index hospitalization, as well as at 4 months, will be measured by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. The present position paper describes the rationale, design and the methods utilized in this trial.