Senile dementia of the Alzheimer type. The prevalence of severe dementia in the United States is about 1.3 million cases, of which at least 50 to 60% are of the Alzheimer type. Severe dementia of the Alzheimer type is found rarely in a clearly dominant pattern, although often one or more relatives are affected. Down's syndrome in adults is often associated with Alzheimer changes. The diagnosis is a clinicopathological one there is a considerable error rate in the clinical diagnosis early in the course of the disease, especially in regard to dementia in depression. The differential diagnosis involves a great many disorders, including multi-infarct dementia, tumors, subdural hematomas, and others. Physiological aspects of Alzheimer's disease include a diffusely slow electroencephalogram, reduced cerebral blood flow, and particular patterns noted on positron emission tomographic scanning. The latter technique has also demonstrated that oxygen extraction is normal in Alzheimer's disease, thus excluding ischemia from possible pathogenetic factors. Morphological changes, that is, the presence of plaques and tangles, are widely distributed in neocortex, paleocortex, and many deep gray areas down through the pontine tegmentum, but largely exclude the basal ganglia, thalamus, and substantia nigra. Numerous plaques without neocortical tangles are found in many demented persons older than 75 years. A severe loss of large neocortical neurons is characteristic of the disease. The chemical nature of the paired helical filaments that make up the neurofibrillary tangle has not yet been ascertained. Neurons are markedly deficient in the basal forebrain nuclei, and this deficiency may account for the severe diminution of choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholine in the neocortex and paleocortex. Muscarinic cholinergic receptors are present in normal amounts. Norepinephrine is reduced in some cases, and somatostatin in most. Substance P is low in severe cases. The etiology of the disorder is unknown and the role of aluminum is disputed. Management of patients with Alzheimer's disease is difficult, and neuroleptics are to be used with great caution because of their side effects. Substrate therapy has not been effective