Recent developments in medical applications of SIMS microscopy. The purpose of this review is to present the recent developments in the medical applications of SIMS microscopy. This technique is one of the microanalytical mass spectrometry methods which allow in theory the detection of all the elements of the Mendeleiev table as well as the separation of stable and radioactive isotopes. It is based on a phenomenon whereby a biological sample surface is sputtered by bombardment with an energetic 'primary ion' beam. Part of the sputtered matter is ionized and the resulting 'secondary ions' are characteristic of the atomic composition of the analyzed area. These secondary positive or negative ions are collected and separated in a mass spectrometer at low or high mass resolution, which is dependent on both the element studied and its concentration. An analytic image which conserves the tissue distribution of the selected element is displayed on a fluorescent screen linked to an image processing system. Local elemental concentration can also be measured. Results are highly dependent on the techniques used for sample preparation which should preserve both the chemical and the structural integrity of the tissue. Further, the ionic images must be correlated with corresponding images of the same areas of the serial sections observed in a photonic microscope. With our SIMS microscope (lateral resolution approximately 0.5 microns, and mass resolution 300 to 12,000) we have demonstrated that this microscopic imaging technique is suitable for physiopathological studies. We revisited thyroid iodine metabolism by mapping chemical elements such as 32S and 127I, characteristic of hormonal physiology. Newly organified iodine (radioiodine) can be evaluated in relation to previously stored iodine (127I) in a given follicle, thus allowing an appraisal of glandular adaptation to aging and iodine overload. Another area in which SIMS can be used in medicine, is for the localization of drug markers in tumor tissue (e.g. fluorine-5-fluouracil, iodine in iododeoxyrubicin). This could facilitate the evaluation of the intratumor drug concentration at the onset of the treatment. Likewise, SIMS can be used to localize radiopharmaceuticals used in diagnosis (e.g. technetium) and therapy (131I of metaiodobenzylguanidine). This would permit a better evaluation of the radiation dose delivered to tissue. Further prospects are within reach with the imminent advent of higher lateral resolution (0.05 microns) SIMS microscopes.