Predicting recovery of severe regional ventricular dysfunction. Comparison of resting scintigraphy with 201Tl and 99mTc-sestamibi. Regional 201Tl activity after resting injection, imaged early and after redistribution, reflects viable myocardium and can predict improved isotope uptake as well as regional and global ventricular function after revascularization. 99mTc-sestamibi, a perfusion tracer with favorable imaging characteristics, has distinct kinetics compared with 201Tl, demonstrating minimal redistribution this property may give 201Tl an advantage for detecting viable myocardium, particularly in segments with resting hypoperfusion. The purpose of this study was to compare regional activities of 201Tl and 99mTc-sestamibi after resting injections in patients with coronary artery disease and regional or global left ventricular dysfunction and to assess their comparative abilities for predicting recovery of severe regional ventricular dysfunction after revascularization.Qualitative and quantitative comparisons of rest and redistribution 201Tl activity and sestamibi activity 1 hour after rest injection were performed in 31 patients with coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction. Quantitative analysis of three short-axis tomograms per patient was performed by use of circumferential profiles that allowed analysis of 12 segments per patient. Two-dimensional echocardiography was used to assess wall motion and thickening in segments corresponding to the single photon emission computed tomography data. Concordance between regional 201Tl activity at redistribution imaging and regional sestamibi activity by semiquantitative visual analysis demonstrated concordant regional activity in 87% of segments among discordant segments, no significant skew was seen, indicating enhanced uptake of one agent over the other. Quantitative analysis for all segments showed significant correlation (r = .86, P < .001) between quantitative regional 201Tl redistribution activity and 1-hour post-rest injection sestamibi activity in individual segments. Eighteen of these patients were revascularized, and echocardiography was repeated 20 +/- 16 days laterIn patients with coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction, quantified sestamibi activity 1 hour after rest injection parallels redistribution 201Tl activity after a resting injection, suggesting that uptake and subsequent handling of sestamibi are more complex than can be explained by a pure flow tracer with no redistribution. Quantitative analysis of regional activities of both 201Tl and sestamibi after resting injections can differentiate viable from nonviable myocardium, and the two agents comparably predict reversibility of significant regional wall motion abnormalities after revascularization in such patients to a similar degree.