Evaluation of therapy for dilated cardiomyopathy with heart failure by iodine-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine imaging: comparison with heart rate variability power spectral analysis. The relationship between the myocardial uptake of iodine-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine (123I-MIBG) and heart rate variability parameters has not been determined. This study determined the relationship between the change in myocardial uptake of 123I-MIBG and improvement in left ventricular function after treatment, to determine the usefulness of 123I-MIBG imaging to assess the effect of therapy on heart failure due to dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). 123I-MIBG imaging and power spectral analysis of heart rate variability were performed before and after treatment in 17 patients with heart failure due to DCM. The following parameters were compared before and after treatment: New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class, radiographic cardiothoracic ratio (CTR), blood pressure, echocardiographic data [left ventricular end-systolic (LVDs) and end-diastolic (LVDd) diameters, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF)], plasma concentrations of norepinephrine and epinephrine, heart rate variability power spectral analysis data [mean low frequency (MLF) and high frequency power (MHF)] and the myocardium to mediastinum activity ratio (MYO/M) obtained in early and late images, and washout rate calculated by anterior planar imaging of 123I-MIBG. The NYHA functional class, LVEF, LVDs, CTR, MLF and MHF improved after treatment. Early MYO/M and late MYO/M improved after treatment. The rate of increase in late MYO/M was positively correlated with the rate of improvement of LVEF after treatment. Furthermore, the late MYO/M was negatively correlated with MLF. Washout rate revealed no correlation with hemodynamic parameters. These findings suggest that late MYO/M is more useful than washout rate to assess the effect of treatment on heart failure due to DCM. Furthermore, the 123I-MIBG imaging and heart rate variability parameters are useful to assess the autonomic tone in DCM with heart failure.