Cerebral vasculopathy in sickle cell anemia: diagnostic contribution of positron emission tomography. Children with sickle cell anemia (SS) have an increased risk for cerebral vasculopathy with stroke (CVA) and cognitive impairment. The present study examines the extent to which adding positron emission tomography (PET) to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can improve the detection of cerebral vasculopathy. Whereas MRI has been the prime modality for showing anatomical lesions, PET excels at assessing the functional metabolic state through glucose utilization 2-deoxy-2 [18F] fluoro-D-glucose (FDG) and microvascular blood flow ([15O]H2O). Forty-nine SS children were studied. Among them, 19 had clinically overt CVA, 20 had life-threatening hypoxic episodes or soft neurologic signs, and 10 were normal based on neurological history and examination. For the entire sample of 49 subjects, 30 (61%) had abnormal MRI findings, 36 (73%) had abnormal PET findings, and 44 (90%) showed abnormalities on either the MRI or the PET or both. Of the 19 subjects with overt CVA, 17 had abnormal MRI (89%), 17 had abnormal PET (89%), and 19 (100%) had either abnormal MRI or PET or both. Among the 20 subjects with soft neurologic signs, 10 (50%) had abnormal MRI, 13 (65%) had abnormal PET, and 17 (85%) had abnormal MRI and/or PET. Six (60%) of the 10 neurologically normal subjects had abnormal PET. Among the 30 subjects with no overt CVA, 25 (83%) demonstrated imaging abnormalities based on either MRI or PET or both, thus, silent ischemia. Lower than average full-scale intelligence quotient (FSIQ) was associated with either overt CVA or silent ischemic lesions. Four subjects who received chronic red blood cell transfusion showed improved metabolic and perfusion status on repeat PET scans. In conclusion, (1) the addition of PET to MRI identified a much greater proportion of SS children with neuroimaging abnormalities, particularly in those who had no history of overt neurologic events. (2) PET lesions are more extensive, often bihemispheric, as compared with MRI abnormalities. (3) PET may be useful in management as a tool to evaluate metabolic improvement after therapeutic interventions, and (4) the correlation of PET abnormalities to subsequent stroke or progressive neurologic dysfunction requires further study.