Sympathomimetic effects of MIBG: comparison with tyramine. Because nothing is known about whether metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) has tyramine-like actions, the sympathomimetic effects of MIBG were determined in the isolated rabbit heart and compared with those of tyramine.Spontaneously beating rabbit hearts were perfused with Tyrode's solution (Langendorff technique 37 degrees CBy producing increases in heart rate and norepinephrine overflow, both compounds had dose-dependent sympathomimetic effects in the rabbit heart. MIBG was much less effective than tyramine in increasing heart rate (maximum effect 59 versus 156 beats/min) and norepinephrine overflow (maximum effect 35 versus 218 pmol/g). Tyramine also caused increases in dopamine overflow, whereas MIBG was a poor dopamine releaser. At a dose of 10 micromol, the increase in heart rate lasted more than 60 min after MIBG and about 20 min after tyramine injection. Accordingly, the norepinephrine overflow caused by 10 micromol MIBG and tyramine declined with half-lives of 57.8 and 2.2 min, respectively. The effects of both drugs were drastically reduced in hearts exposed to 2 micromol/L desipramine. The kinetic parameters characterizing the saturation of neuronal uptake by 125I-MIBG and 14C-tyramine were similar for the two compounds: Km values of MIBG and tyramine were 1.6 and 1.7 micromol/L, respectively, and Vmax values of MIBG and tyramine were 43 and 37 pmol/mg protein/min, respectively. However, in inhibiting the vesicular 3H-catecholamine uptake, MIBG was eight times less potent than tyramine.MIBG is much less effective than tyramine as an indirect sympathomimetic agent. This is probably a result of its relatively low affinity for the vesicular monoamine transporter and explains the relatively poor ability of the drug to mobilize norepinephrine stored in synaptic vesicles. The long duration of MIBG action results primarily from the drug not being metabolized by monoamine oxidase. The sympathomimetic effects of MIBG described here are not likely to come into play in patients given diagnostic or common therapeutic doses of radioiodinated MIBG.