Fourier phase analysis of SPECT equilibrium radionuclide angiography in symptomatic patients with mitral valve prolapse without significant mitral regurgitation: assessment of biventricular functional abnormalities suggesting a cardiomyopathy. Ventricular premature beats are common in patients with mitral valve prolapse (MVP). The purpose of this study was to determine whether symptomatic patients with MVP had certain functional characteristics and if ventricular arrhythmia (VA) could be explained by functional extravalvular abnormalities. Single photon emission computed tomography equilibrium radionuclide angiography with Fourier phase analysis was preferred to the planar radionuclide method. Only patients without significant mitral regurgitation were studied.A total of 23 symptomatic patients with MVP (13 men, 10 women, mean age, 47+/-14 years) without mitral regurgitation underwent single photon emission computed tomography equilibrium radionuclide angiography. Symptoms were present in 20 patients, and VA was present in 14 patients. Ejection fraction, regional wall motion, and Fourier phase analysis were examined in both ventricles and compared with results for normal subjects. Ventricular abnormalities were observed in 20 (87%) patients: decreased left ventricular and right ventricular ejection fractions, increased standard deviations of the mean phase and focal wall motion, and/or delayed phase abnormalities. Abnormalities were less frequent but more marked in the right ventricular free wall, the infundibulum, or the septum compared with left ventricular delayed abnormalities, which were more frequent but limited. In 12 of 14 patients with VA, phase-delayed areas were observed in the ventricle where the origin of ventricular premature beats was suspected on the basis of their electrocardiographic morphologic features. A relation was found between late potentials and delayed-phase areas (right ventricle or septum) and left bundle branch block morphologic features of VA.Symptomatic patients with MVP frequently have ventricular dysfunction in 1 or both ventricles, sometimes limited but more marked in the presence of severe VA even without significant mitral regurgitation, suggesting structural modification. The use of a sensitive, accurate, and 3-dimensional method such as single photon emission computed tomography equilibrium radionuclide angiography may be of interest for a noninvasive investigation, especially in young symptomatic patients with MVP and VA.