Heart failure diagnostics based on ventilation/perfusion single photon emission computed tomography pattern and quantitative perfusion gradients. Left heart failure (LHF) is a common and frequently overlooked condition owing to insufficient diagnostic methods. This can potentially delay onset of treatment. Our clinical experience with ventilation/perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (V/P SPECT) indicates that perfusion shows an antigravitational distribution pattern in LHF. The aim of the study was to test the hypothesis that LHF diagnosis can be made on the basis of V/P SPECT, and to develop and perform a first evaluation of objective parameters for LHF diagnostics in terms of perfusion gradients.This retrospective study included 247 consecutive patients with clinical suspicion of pulmonary embolism (PE), who were examined with V/P SPECT. Perfusion gradients were developed and quantified in dorso-ventral and cranio-caudal directions. Quantitative results were compared with visual interpretation of patients with normal and heart failure patterns. Patients with LHF pattern were retrospectively followed up by review of medical records to confirm or discard heart failure diagnosis at the time of V/P SPECT examination.LHF pattern on V/P SPECT was identified in 36 patients (15%), normal ventilation/perfusion pattern was found in 67 patients (27%), and PE in 62 patients (25%). The follow-up confirmed heart failure diagnosis in 32 of the 36 cases with LHF pattern, leading to a positive predictive value of 88% for LHF diagnosis based on V/P SPECT. Dorso-ventral perfusion gradients discriminated normal from LHF patients.In patients with suspected PE, LHF is common. Appropriate V/P SPECT pattern recognition, supported by objectively determined dorso-ventral perfusion gradients, allows the diagnosis of LHF. A positive perfusion gradient in the dorso-ventral direction should lead to consideration of heart failure as a possible explanation for the symptoms in these patients.