Continued pemetrexed and platin-based chemotherapy in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM): value of 18F-FDG-PET/CT. To prospectively analyze different FDG-PET/CT-parameters (modified RECIST, SUVmax, TLG, PETvol) in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) under continued pemetrexed and platin based treatment.Patients with biopsy proven MPM undergoing treatment with pemetrexed and platin based treatment were prospectively included in the study. Integrated FDG-PET/CT imaging was performed within 2 weeks before therapy and after every three consecutive cycles of combined chemotherapy. All CT-images were evaluated according to the modified RECIST (modRECIST) criteria. All FDG-PET/CT images were analyzed using SUVmax (maximum Standard Uptake Value) according to the EORTC criteria, change in Total Lesion Glycolysis (TLG) and FDG volume (PETvol). Percent change in all parameters compared to the initial, pre-therapeutic and the previous FDG-PET/CT scan. ModRECIST, EORTC guidelines, increase or decrease in TLG and PETvol was correlated with overall survival (OS) using the Log Rank Test.41 patients with MPM were prospectively included in this study. The median OS of the study population is 439 days (111-1128). 41 patients had initial staging, 41 patients completed 3 cycles, 28 patients completed 6 cycles, 19 patients completed 9 cycles, 11 patients completed 12 cycles, 5 patients completed 15 cycles, 4 patients completed 18 cycles and 1 patient completed 21 cycles of chemotherapy. Chemotherapy was well tolerated up to 21 cycles. SUVmax showed a high variance over time for individual patients and change in SUVmax using EORTC guidelines did not predict OS at any time point. Ongoing morphological response in CT using modRECIST had highest correlation with OS and predicted survival up to the 15th cycle of continued permetrexed and platin based treatment. The correlations of response of the volume based PET parameters (TLG and PETvol) and OS are inferior to the morphological modRECIST parameter.Permetrexed and platin based treatment in MPM patients can be given over a prolonged time with good tolerance. Therapy response should be assessed by modRECIST in CT but not with SUVmax in FDG-PET. Long term permetrexed and platin therapy should be considered in MPM patients with good tolerance of treatment and ongoing morphological response in CT.