Myocardial contrast echocardiography in human beings: correlation of resting perfusion defects to sestamibi single photon emission computed tomography. The presence of myocardial perfusion abnormalities is generally accepted to suggest underlying coronary artery disease. In previous animal studies, myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) has been shown to be useful in delineating areas at risk after coronary occlusions. We sought to compare the presence or absence, size, and location of perfusion defects detected in human beings by MCE and sestamibi single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Regional wall motion was qualitatively assessed in the parasternal and apical views of a resting two-dimensional echocardiogram. Coronary angiography was performed in all patients and myocardial contrast echocardiography performed with 2 ml of intracoronary sonicated meglumine (Nycomed). A cine loop of the digitized contrast echocardiograms was used to analyze perfusion defects. Gated SPECT resting images in standard views were obtained after technetium 99m sestamibi (20 mCi) was administered. Visually perceived perfusion defects were established at 30% of maximal counts at end diastole. Perfusion defects by both techniques were planimetered, assigned to one of three perfusion artery territories, and expressed as a percentage of the perfusion territory studied. Comparison was made by linear regression analysis. Forty-one patients were studied. Perfusion defects were observed in 12 (29%) patients by MCE, 19 (46%) patients by SPECT, and 11 (27%) patients by both techniques. No perfusion defects were detected by MCE in 29 (70%) patients, by SPECT in 22 (53%) patients, or by either technique in 21 (51%) patients. The two techniques agreed in 78% of the patients. In 67 matching orthogonal views suitable for comparison between the two techniques, an 82% concordance for the presence or absence of defects was observed. The location of the defects matched in 86% of the cases. A significant correlation (p < 0.001 r = 0.62) between these techniques was observed in assessing the size of perfusion defects. In conclusion, our results suggest that MCE and sestamibi SPECT are comparable techniques for detecting severely underperfused myocardium in human beings.