Cell-mediated immune response to tuberculosis antigens: comparison of skin testing and measurement of in vitro gamma interferon production in whole-blood culture. Although delayed-type hypersensitivity skin testing with tuberculin purified protein derivative (PPD) is the standard for tuberculosis screening, its variability suggests the need for a more sensitive, noninvasive test. An in vitro whole-blood assay has been proposed as an alternative. Using health care worker volunteers, we confirmed the correlation between PPD skin test (PPD-ST) results (positive, induration of >15 mm) and a standardized gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) assay, QuantiFERON-TB (Q-IFN), manufactured by CSL Biosciences in Australia, and we evaluated Mycobacterium tuberculosis culture subfractions as potential substitutes for PPD. Twenty healthy volunteers with positive PPD-ST results and 20 PPD-ST-negative controls were enrolled. Whole blood was cultured with human PPD antigens (HuPPD), Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) PPD, phytohemagglutinin (PHA), and four M. tuberculosis culture subfractions: low-molecular-weight culture, filtrate, culture filtrate without lipoarabinomannan, soluble cell wall proteins, and cytosolic proteins, all developed from M. tuberculosis strain H(37)RV. Secretion of IFN-gamma (expressed as international units per milliliter) was measured by an enzyme immunoassay. The PPD or subculture fraction response as a percentage of the PHA response was used to determine positivity. Sixteen of 20 PPD-ST-positive individuals were classified as M. tuberculosis positive by Q-IFN, and 1 was classified as MAC positive. Sixteen of 20 PPD-ST-negative individuals were M. tuberculosis negative by Q-IFN, 2 were MAC positive, and 2 were M. tuberculosis positive. The tuberculosis culture subfractions stimulated IFN-gamma production in PPD-ST-positive volunteers, and significant differences could be seen between the two PPD-ST groups with all subfractions except soluble cell wall protein however, the response was variable and no better than the Q-IFN PPD. The agreement between the Q-IFN test and the PPD-ST was good (Cohen's kappa = 0.73). The Q-IFN assay can be a useful tool in further studies of immune responses to M. tuberculosis antigens.