Heptad motifs within the distal subdomain of the coiled-coil rod region of M protein from rheumatic fever and nephritis associated serotypes of group A streptococci are distinct from each other: nucleotide sequence of the M57 gene and relation of the deduced amino acid sequence to other M proteins. Streptococcal M protein, a dimeric alpha helical coiled-coil molecule, is an antigenically variable virulence factor on the surface of the bacteria. Our recent conformational analysis of the complete sequence of the M6 protein led us to propose a basic model for the M protein consisting of an extended central coiled-coil rod domain flanked by a variable N-terminal and a conserved C-terminal end domains. The central coiled-coil rod domain of M protein, which constitutes the major part of the M molecule, is made up of repeating heptads of the generalized sequence a-b-c-d-e-f-g, wherein "a" and "d" are predominantly apolar residues. Based on the differences in the heptad pattern of apolar residues and internal sequence homology, the central coiled-coil rod domain of M protein could be further divided into three subdomains I, II, and III. The streptococcal sequelae rheumatic fever (RF) and acute glomerulonephritis (AGN) have been known to be associated with distinct serotypes. Consistent with this, we observed that the AGN associated M49 protein exhibits a heptad motif that is distinct from the RF associated M5 and M6 proteins. Asn and Leu predominated in the "a" and "d" positions, respectively, in subdomain I of the M5 and M6 proteins, whereas apolar residues predominated in both these positions in the M49 protein. To establish whether the heptad motif of M49 is unique to this protein, or is a general characteristic of nephritis-associated serotypes, the amino acid sequence of M57, another nephritis-associated serotype, has now been examined. The gene encoding M57 was amplified by PCR, cloned into pUC19 vector, and sequenced. The C-terminal half of M57 is highly homologous to other M proteins (conserved region). In contrast, its N-terminal half (variable region) revealed no significant homology with any of the M proteins. Heptad periodicity analysis of the M57 sequence revealed that the basic design principles, consisting of distinct domains observed in the M6 protein, are also conserved in the M57 molecule. However, the heptad motif within the coiled-coil subdomain I of M57 was distinct from M5 and M6 but similar to M49. Similar analyses of the heptad characteristics within the reported sequences of M1, M12, and M24 proteins further confirmed the conservation of the overall architectural design of sequentially distinct M proteins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)