M1 protein and protein H: IgGFc- and albumin-binding streptococcal surface proteins encoded by adjacent genes. M1 protein and Protein H are surface proteins simultaneously present at the surface of certain strains of Streptococcus pyogenes, important pathogenic bacteria in humans. The present study concerns the structure, protein-binding properties and relationship between these two molecules. The gene encoding M1 protein (emm1) was found immediately upstream of the Protein H gene (sph). Both genes were preceded by a promoter region. Comparison of the sequences revealed a high degree of similarity in the signal peptides, the C repeats located in the central parts of the molecules and in the C-terminal cell-wall-attached regions, whereas the N-terminal sequences showed no significant similarity. Protein H has affinity for the Fc region of IgG antibodies. Also M1 protein, isolated from streptococcal culture supernatants or from Escherichia coli expressing emm1, was found to bind human IgGFc. When tested against polyclonal IgG from eight other mammalian species, M1 protein and Protein H both showed affinity for baboon, rabbit and pig IgG. M1 protein also reacted with guinea-pig IgG, whereas both streptococcal proteins were negative in binding experiments with rat, mouse, bovine and horse IgG. The two proteins were also tested against other members of the immunoglobulin super family: human IgM, IgA, IgD, IgE, beta 2-microglobulin, and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class-I and class-II antigens. M1 protein showed no affinity for any of these molecules whereas Protein H reacted with MHC class-II antigens. M1 protein is known to bind albumin and fibrinogen also. The binding sites for these two plasma proteins and for IgGFc were mapped to different sites on M1 protein. Thus albumin bound to the C repeats and IgGFc to a region (S) immediately N-terminal of the C repeats. Finally, fibrinogen bound further towards the N-terminus but close to the IgGFc-binding site. On the fibrinogen molecule, fragment D was found to mediate binding to M1 protein. The IgGFc-binding region of M1 protein showed no similarity to that of Protein H. Still, competitive binding experiments demonstrated that the two streptococcal proteins bound to overlapping sites on IgGFc.