Streptococcus pyogenes serotype M1 encodes multiple pathways for entry into human epithelial cells. The ability of a serotype M1 strain of Streptococcus pyogenes to efficiently invade A549 human lung epithelial cells was previously shown to be dependent on bacterial exposure to human or bovine serum proteins or synthetic peptides containing the sequence RGD. In this study, stimulation by invasion agonists was determined to be dependent on expression of the streptococcal cell surface protein, M1. Fetal bovine serum (FBS), fibronectin (Fn), the extracellular matrix protein laminin (Lm), and RGD-containing peptides were tested for their abilities to promote epithelial cell invasion and adherence by isogenic M1(+) and M1(-) strains of S. pyogenes. In the absence of an agonist, invasion and adherence were comparable for the two bacterial strains. FBS, Fn, and Lm stimulated invasion of the M1(+) strain as much as 70-fold but failed to significantly affect invasion by the M1(-) mutant. Adherence of the wild-type strain was stimulated by these same agonists. Epithelial cell adherence by the M1(-) strain, however, was unaffected by the presence of Fn or Lm. Several RGD-containing peptides were found to promote invasion independently of M1 expression. Binding of 125I-Fn was reduced 88% by the M1(-) mutation and Fn was found to bind purified M1 protein, suggesting that Fn mediates invasion by direct binding to M1. To determine if host integrins might be involved in internalization of streptococci, several anti-integrin monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) were tested for their abilities to inhibit invasion. Antibody directed against integrin beta1 inhibited FBS-, Fn-, and Lm-mediated invasion but did not abrogate RGD-peptide-stimulated invasion. MAb directed against the epithelial cell Fn receptor, integrin alpha5beta1, inhibited Fn and FBS-mediated invasion but did not specifically inhibit Lm-mediated invasion. These results indicate that S. pyogenes has evolved multiple mechanisms for invasion of eukaryotic cells, at least two of which involve interactions between M1 protein, host integrins, and integrin ligands.