Utilization of rapid diagnostic tests for group A streptococcus and and bacteriologic and clinical correlations with acute angina in general medicine. A prospective study was conducted between November 1995 and May 1996 by 130 general practitioners in France to assess feasibility of a rapid routine diagnostic test for group A streptococcus infection in a general medicine setting and to search for bacteriological and clinical correlations.A routine diagnostic test was performed in all patients presenting acute pharyngitis and cultures were ordered in case of positive tests. Among the 2,800 patients included, there were 563 children under 14 years and 2,226 adults. The routine diagnostic test was positive in 393 cases (14%). A culture was obtained in 375 case and isolated group A streptococcus in 324 (11.5% of the total population). The positive predictive value of the routine diagnostic test was 86.4% in this general medicine setting.Comparing clinical signs with the results of the routine diagnostic test showed that an erythematous pultaceous aspect of the pharynx, severe dysphagia and the presence of enlarged nodes were more frequent in patients with streptococcal pharyngitis. The association of these 3 clinical signs with fever > 38 degrees C was also more frequent in patients with a positive routine diagnostic test (OR = 3.3 95% CI = 2.5-4.4). The triad hoarseness + cough + rhinorrhea was more frequent in subjects with a positive routine diagnostic test (22.7% versus 9%The general practitioners who participated in this study found the routine diagnostic test for group A streptococcal pharyngitis was easy to use and compatible with everyday practice. This diagnostic tool was seen as a progress in the management of acute pharyngitis, but only 53.7% of the practitioners were willing to use antibiotics only for cases where a highly specific routine diagnostic test performed during the consultation identifies group A streptococcus. Lack of reimbursement by the national health assurance however makes it impossible to use this test routinely in the general medicine setting.