The prevalence of chronic Chlamydia pneumoniae infection as detected by polymerase chain reaction in pharyngeal samples from patients with ischaemic heart disease. Cross-sectional serological studies have suggested an association between ischaemic heart disease and infections from Chlamydia pneumoniae and Helicobacter pylori. We therefore sought to find out if patients with ischaemic heart disease had an increased prevalence of C. pneumoniae in the pharynx. As the course of the C. pneumoniae infection remains unclear, both acute and follow-up samples were taken and compared with antibody levels.We studied 282 patients with ischaemic heart disease. One hundred and two subjects without history or symptoms of ischaemic heart disease served as controls. Pharyngeal specimens for polymerase chain reaction detection of C. pneumoniae, and blood samples for C. pneumoniae and H. pylori antibody detection, were collected. In patients with positive polymerase chain reaction or C. pneumoniae IgA titres > or = 32, indicating current infection, convalescent samples were taken at least 6 weeks later. An immunofluorescent antigen detection test was used to confirm the presence of C. pneumoniae elementary bodies in specimens found to be polymerase chain reaction positive. The prevalence of positive polymerase chain reaction tests was 36% among patients and 22% among controls (P<0.05). Forty-seven percent of patients with positive polymerase chain reaction remained positive in the convalescent test. Elevated C. pneumoniae IgG titres > or = 512 were found in 39% of patients and 26% of the controls (P<0.05). IgA titres > or = 32 were found in 46% of the patients and 44% of the controls (ns). Antibody titres remained largely unchanged at convalescent testing. Two patients and none of the controls had IgM titres > 16. There was no link between positive H. pylori serology and positive C. pneumoniae polymerase chain reaction tests.The high prevalence and persistence of positive pharyngeal C. pneumoniae polymerase chain reaction and elevated antibody titres in patients with ischaemic heart disease indicate a chronic infection. The pharyngeal presence of C. pneumoniae might contribute to a low grade inflammatory activation or be a source for further spread of the bacteria to atherosclerotic vessels.