Preoperative assessment of cervical lymph nodes in head and neck cancer with fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose using a dual-head coincidence camera: a pilot study. The aim of this study was to investigate whether in patients with head and neck cancer, staging is possible with fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) using a dual-head positron emission tomography (PET) camera. Twenty patients (ten men, ten women mean age: 60 years) were studied using 185 MBq (5 mCi) 18F-FDG. Two of these patients who were suspected of having recurrence in the neck were restaged 19 and 12 months, respectively, after the resection of the primary tumour. The images were visually analyzed and the results were correlated with computed tomography (CT) (n = 18), ultrasonography (n = 17) and pathological findings. With respect to the primary tumour, FDG dual-head PET and CT revealed a sensitivity of 100% and 59%, respectively (P < 0.001). In seven patients lymph node metastases were found in the neck specimen. Two of them had bilateral metastases. FDG dual-head PET correctly identified all nine pathological neck sides whereas CT and ultrasonography depicted eight of nine and seven of eight pathological sides, respectively. In three patients, false-positive FDG uptake was seen, which was due to a preceding biopsy in two cases. The sensitivity of FDG dual-head PET, CT and ultrasonography in the identification of pathological neck sides was 100%, 89% and 87%, respectively, and the specificity was 90%, 93% and 50%, respectively. With knowledge of the preceding biopsies, the specificity of FDG dual-head PET would have been 97%. The smallest lymph node metastasis detected by FDG dual-head PET that was missed by CT had a diameter of 0.6 cm. Measurement of 18F-FDG with a dual-head PET camera is very sensitive in the detection of primary head and neck cancers and accurate in the preoperative assessment of lymph node metastases. The results justify a prospective study on the identification of metastases in patients with head and neck cancer. In addition, it is justified to start a study on the detection of unknown primary tumours in patients with cervical metastases.