Rapid renal single-photon emission tomography by continuous infusion of iridium-191m. Continuous infusion of iridium-191m (t1/2 = 5 s), produced with an 191Os/191mIr generator, was used to obtain rapid high-resolution single-photon emission tomography (SPET) of renal blood flow in the rabbit. SPET scans of the abdomen were obtained with a triple-detector SPET system (MS3, Siemens Gammasonics). The generator was eluted at a flow rate of 3 ml/min, which delivered a steady-state dose of 170 MBq (4.5 mCi) of 191mIr. The total 191Os breakthrough was 850 kBq (23 microCi). A 5-min SPET acquisition recorded a total of 2.8 million counts, resulting in images of high technical quality. Volume-rendered images clearly showed the abdominal aorta, splenic artery, spleen, renal arteries, kidneys and splanchnic vasculature. Tomographic slices through the kidneys revealed tracer primarily within the renal cortices without visualization of the collecting system. The estimated effective dose equivalent for a 5 min infusion of 191mIr at a steady-state dose of 170 MBq is 0.74 mSv compared with 2.7 mSv from a 170 MBq dose of 99mTc-DMSA. This study demonstrates the feasibility of high-resolution SPET of regional renal perfusion in the rabbit by continuous intravenous infusion of 191mIr. The renal distribution of continuously infused 191mIr is largely within the cortices, with minimal or no detectable activity in the region of the renal pelvicalyceal system. Using this technique, cortical renal SPET can be completed much more rapidly (< 5 min) than with conventional renal cortical imaging agents, which suggests that this technique could be applied to the observation of rapid changes in renal perfusion such as those resulting from pharmacologic intervention, obviating the need for the patient to return for additional visits. Additional studies are required to (a) validate the methodology in larger animals prior to considering the potential for use in human beings, (b) optimize the generator design for continuous infusion, and (c) evaluate the changes in the distribution of 191mIr that occur in animal models of altered renal perfusion.