Analysis of sympathetic nerve activity in end-stage cardiomyopathy patients receiving left ventricular support. The left ventricular assist system (LVAS) has been used increasingly for patients with end-stage heart failure who are awaiting transplantation. Sympathetic nerve activity is known to correlate with cardiac function in chronic heart failure patients, but little is known about sympathetic nerve activity during LVAS support. In this study, we examined the status of sympathetic nerve activity in relation to mechanical support.In this study, we included 10 consecutive patients with end-stage cardiomyopathy who were on LVAS support for at least 2 months (duration, 222 +/- 59 days). None of these patients achieved enough functional recovery to be taken off LVAS. In these patients, we used iodine-125-metaiodobenzylguanidine (125I-MIBG) scintigraphy to examine the change of sympathetic nerve activity after LVAS implantation, and compared the results with the change of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels as well as with histologic optional findings. Samples for ANP and BNP measurement were obtained before and 30 days after LVAS implantation. Specimens for histologic analysis were obtained at the time of LVAS implantation and at the time of cardiac transplantation or autopsy.We observed marked decrease in serum levels of ANP and BNP 1 month after LVAS implantation. But myocardial sympathetic nerve function, which was evaluated with 125I-MIBG scintigraphy and expressed as the heart-to-mediastinum activity ratio, remained below normal even 2 months after the LVAS implantation (1.57 +/- 0.19 normal, 2.34 +/- 0.36). Serial histologic analysis in these 10 patients showed continuous increase in percentage of fibrosis and cell diameter despite ventricular unloading by the LVAS.Sympathetic nerve function, which was evaluated on 125I-MIBG scintigraphy, did not improve during left ventricular support. Because none of the patients included in our study showed improvement in cardiac function or histologic findings, the recovery of myocardial sympathetic nerve function may be an important factor in myocardial recovery for cardiomyopathy patients on LVAS support.