Endometriosis: an overview of the disease and its treatment. To review endometriosis, its etiology, clinical presentation, and current management options.Published articles identified through MEDLINE (1966-2000) using the search term "endometriosis" and the additional terms "etiology" and "treatment." Additional articles were identified from the bibliographies of the retrieved articles.Endometriosis, a disease that affects the physical health and emotional well-being of many women of reproductive age, is defined as the presence of endometrial tissue outside its normal location in the uterus. The disease ranges in severity from mild to severe, and patients may be asymptomatic or experience severe and potentially incapacitating symptoms, such as dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, and infertility. The diagnosis can be confirmed only by direct visualization using laparoscopy and biopsy. The risk of endometriosis is increased in women who have an affected first-degree relative or who have shorter menstrual cycle lengths, longer duration of menstrual flow, and low parity. The etiology of endometriosis is not yet fully understand, but may involve retrograde menstruation, hereditary factors, and impaired immune function. Treatment should be individualized for each patient, taking into account the therapeutic goals, the extent of disease, symptomatology, and the woman's age and overall health. Treatment options include expectant management, hormonal therapies to suppress ovarian steroidogenesis and induce endometrial atrophy, and surgery to remove visible lesions or, as a last resort, the uterus and ovaries.Although the precise etiology of endometriosis remains a mystery, treatment options have improved considerably in recent years. Pharmacists are well positioned to identify women with unexplained pelvic pain or infertility that may be indicative of endometriosis and refer them to their physicians for further evaluation. Pharmacists also can play an important role in counseling patients about the safe and effective use of the various treatments for this disease and strategies to recognize and reduce adverse effects.