beta-Catenin expression pattern, beta-catenin gene mutations, and microsatellite instability in endometrioid ovarian carcinomas and synchronous endometrial carcinomas. beta-Catenin gene mutations and microsatellite instability (MI) have been reported in endometrioid ovarian carcinomas. In colon but not endometrial cancer, beta-catenin gene mutations are associated with a replication error phenotype and MI. In this study the authors investigate whether beta-catenin mutations and MI are two independent oncogenic pathways in endometrioid ovarian carcinomas. They also evaluate the usefulness of these molecular markers in determining the primary origin of simultaneous tumors in the ovary and endometrium. This study was performed on 26 patients diagnosed with primary endometrioid ovarian carcinoma, five of whom also had pathologically diagnosed primary synchronous endometrioid endometrial carcinoma. Immunohistochemical and molecular analyses indicated that there were 25 primary ovarian tumors with four primary synchronous endometrial cancers and one ovarian metastasis of a primary endometrial carcinoma. All studies were performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue samples. The beta-catenin expression pattern (nuclear vs. membranous) was analyzed immunohistochemically. Mutations in exon 3 of the beta-catenin gene were studied by polymerase chain reaction, single-strand conformational polymorphism, and direct sequencing. MI status was established by studying BAT-26 and BAT-25 mononucleotide repeats. In the group with 21 single ovarian tumors, 18 (85%) had beta-catenin nuclear expression, eight (38%) had beta-catenin gene mutations (always associated with beta-catenin nuclear expression), and four (19%) had MI. Only one case (5%) had both beta-catenin gene mutations and MI. The mutations affected one of the serine/threonine residues targeted for phosphorylation by glycogen synthase kinase-3beta or adjacent residues. At codon 32, a GAC-to-TAC (D32Y) change was found at codon 33, two TCT-to-TGT (S33C) changes were found