Gene expression analysis of tumor infiltrating lymphocyte markers in endometrial cancers indicates no significant increases in those cases with microsatellite instability. Microsatellite instability (MSI) is seen in many cancers and is the result of either a germline or somatic defect in the DNA mismatch repair system. Microsatellite instability is common in endometrial cancers occurring in about 25% of cases with endometrioid histology. Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) are more prominent in colorectal cancer cases with MSI. The presence of increased TIL is associated with increased survival in these colorectal cancers, and is suggested as one possible mechanism to explain the increased survival rates in colorectal cancer patients with MSI positive cancers. Some degree of evidence indicates that increased TIL is also predictive of increased survival in endometrial cancer. The relative levels and states of activation of TIL in endometrial cancers with and without MSI has not been explored. Our previous data indicates that global gene expression patterns from MSI and non-MSI endometrial cancers are distinct, however TIL markers were not over-represented on statistically relevant gene lists that distinguish these groups. We further examined these pre-existing microarray data by directly querying transcripts present in the T-cell gene ontology (GO) group. No significant differences were observed between MSI and microsatellite stable (MSS) groups. Finally we directly examined a set of T-cell marker transcripts previously utilized to define increased activated and cytotoxic TIL in MSI positive colorectal cancers. Whereas colorectal cancers with MSI have been previously demonstrated to contain higher ratios of CD8/CD3 message levels we observed no difference in endometrial cancers. In addition, levels of CD3 indicated no increases in TIL in MSI positive cases and 2 markers of activation, granzyme B and IL-2R were not different in MSI positive and negative cancers. These data indicate that significant differences in TIL derived transcripts do not occur between endometrioid endometrial cancers with and without microsatellite instability.