FGF2 transcript levels are positively correlated with EGF and IGF-1 in the malignant endometrium. Epidermal and insulin-like growth factors (EGF, IGFs) act as mitogens promoting endothelial cell proliferation and differentiation. Accumulating evidence for interactions between EGF and IGF signaling pathways has been reported. Fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) is also mitogenic for various cell types and is associated with regulation of tumor angiogenesis and metastasis. However EGF, IGF-1 and FGF2 transcript levels have been scarcely investigated in endometrial carcinoma.In the present study, we evaluated the mRNA expression pattern of EGF, IGF-1 and FGF2 by using Comparative Quantitative real-time RT-PCR assay in 30 endometrial cancer specimens and an equal number of adjacent normal tissues.Both overexpression and down-regulation of EGF, IGF-1 and FGF2 was demonstrated in endometrial cancer compared to the adjacent normal specimens however the main features of cancer were IGF-1 and EGF down-regulation and FGF2 up-regulation. Different co-expression patterns of all three factors were displayed in normal and malignant endometrium. Interestingly, FGF2 mRNA was positively correlated with EGF and IGF-1 transcript levels in endometrial cancer (P=0.024 and P=0.006, respectively), while no co-expression was observed in the adjacent normal specimens. Furthermore, endometrial tissue-pair analysis revealed a significant positive correlation between EGF and IGF-1 (P=0.010), supporting the hypothesis of a cross-talk between IGF- and EGF-mediated signaling pathways in endometrial cancer. EGF transcript levels were marginally higher in endometrioid than non-endometrioid tumors (P=0.050), and in grade I compared to grade II tumors (P=0.053).Up-regulation as well as down-regulation of EGF, IGF-1 and FGF2 transcript levels is observed in endometrial cancer however IGF-1 and EGF down-regulation and FGF2 up-regulation seem to comprise the main features of endometrial carcinogenesis. The disruption of their mRNA co-expression pattern observed supports the hypothesis of a cross-talk between IGF- and EGF-mediated signaling pathways in promoting endothelial cell proliferation and differentiation in endometrial cancer.