Expression of cell cycle regulatory proteins in endometrial adenocarcinoma: variations in conventional tumor areas and in microcystic, elongated and fragmented glands. Endometrial adenocarcinomas may show a distinctive pattern of invasion characterized by the presence of microcystic, elongated and fragmented glands, often most evident along the advancing tumor margin. Earlier, we have shown that these changes appear restricted to low-grade endometrioid carcinomas, many of which show focal mucinous differentiation and lymphovascular space invasion. However, the molecular alterations associated with this morphological alteration are not known. In this study, we have examined immunoreactivity for the cell cycle regulatory proteins cyclin D1, p16 and beta-catenin in 22 endometrial carcinomas, specifically comparing the results in conventional tumor areas and in foci in which the glands exhibited microcystic, elongated and fragmented appearances. The conventional neoplastic glands exhibited cyclin D1 and p16 expression in most cases, with >50% tumor cells positive in 8 cases and 11 tumors, respectively. Membranous expression of beta-catenin was usually preserved, with variable cytoplasmic and nuclear staining. Cyclin D1 and beta-catenin predominantly stained cells at the peripheral or basal aspect of the conventional glands, whereas p16 was more uniformly expressed centrally. Tumor foci composed of microcystic, fragmented and elongated glands showed strong expression of cyclin D1 and p16, sometimes in contrast to unstained contiguous or adjacent conventional neoplastic elements, and there was also loss or fragmentation of membranous beta-catenin staining. Intravascular tumor cells also expressed cyclin D1 and p16 and therefore the immunostains often highlighted subtle foci of lymphovascular invasion. The heterogeneous expression of cell cycle regulatory proteins within endometrial adenocarcinoma illustrates the importance of assessing microanatomical variations in immunoreactivity, particularly at the advancing margin of tumors. The upregulation of cyclin D1 and p16, together with loss of membranous beta-catenin expression in microcystic, fragmented and elongated glands, is similar to epithelial-mesenchymal transitions observed in other malignancies and suggests that this pattern of invasion represents an active rather than a degenerative cellular process.