Clinicopathologic analysis of loss of AT-rich interactive domain 1A expression in endometrial cancer. Loss of the AT-rich interactive domain 1A (a putative tumor suppressor) protein BAF250a has recently been described as a frequent event in endometrial carcinoma. In this study, we determined the significance of the loss of AT-rich interactive domain 1A immunoreactivity for several clinicopathologic features of uterine endometrioid carcinoma. AT-rich interactive domain 1A expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry using 111 paraffin-embedded tissue specimens and clinical data collected by a retrospective medical record review. The correlations between loss of AT-rich interactive domain 1A protein and clinicopathologic and prognostic features were examined. In addition, the expression of PTEN, p53, Her2, and MLH1 was assessed by immunohistochemistry and compared with AT-rich interactive domain 1A expression. AT-rich interactive domain 1A immunoreactivity was undetectable in 27 (24%) of 111 analyzed endometrioid endometrial carcinomas. There was no significant difference between negative and positive cases of AT-rich interactive domain 1A in terms of any clinicopathologic features examined (International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage, grade, depth of myometrial invasion, lymph node metastasis, lymphovascular space invasion, body mass index, postmenopausal status, patient age at diagnosis, and estrogen and progesterone receptor status). The comparison between the expression of AT-rich interactive domain 1A and the expression of PTEN, p53, Her2, and MLH1 also revealed no significant association. There was no significant correlation between AT-rich interactive domain 1A expression and progression-free/overall survival of patients. This study provides the first examination of the clinicopathologic relationship between AT-rich interactive domain 1A protein expression and endometrial carcinoma. No significant differences between positive and negative cases of AT-rich interactive domain 1A were observed with respect to any clinicopathologic features or patient survival.