The effects of scopolamine on changes in regional cerebral blood flow during classical conditioning of the human eyeblink response. We examined the effects of scopolamine on the functional anatomy of classical conditioning of the human eyeblink response. Ten healthy young normal female volunteers (mean age +/- SEM: 26.7 +/- 0.9 years) were administered 0.4 mg scopolamine intravenously 1 h before regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured with positron emission tomography (PET) and H215O. Scans occurred during three sequential phases: (1) explicitly unpaired presentations of the unconditioned stimulus (airpuff to the right eye) and conditioned stimulus (binaural tone), (2) paired presentations of the two stimuli (associative learning) and (3) explicitly unpaired presentation of the stimuli (extinction phase). Scopolamine impaired acquisition of the conditioned eyeblink response (54.7 +/- 4.9%) relative to 18 untreated subjects from two previous PET studies. Regions that showed significant relative increases in rCBF during conditioning included the right lateral occipital cortex, the right inferior occipital cortex, the right lateral temporo-occipital cortex, the left medial temporo-occipital cortex, the posterior cingulate, the right cerebellum/brain stem area and the medial cerebellum. Significant relative decreases in rCBF were measured in the thalamus, the left putamen/insula area, the right putamen and the left and middle cerebellar cortex. The data partially replicate previous findings in unmedicated young volunteers of conditioning-specific rCBF changes in the cingulate cortex, the cerebellar cortex, the insula and the lateral temporo-occipital cortex. Our finding of decreased rCBF in the thalamus and increased rCBF in the occipital cortex may be attributable to effects of scopolamine per se rather than conditioning. Our data lend further support to the notion that classical conditioning involves distributed changes in multiple systems within the central nervous system.