Liposomal doxorubicin and conventionally fractionated radiotherapy in the treatment of locally advanced non-small-cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. Stealth (ALZA Corporation, Palo Alto, CA) liposomal drug formulation allows a higher intratumoral accumulation and a prolonged plasma half-life of the encapsulated drugs. In the study presented here, we evaluated the feasibility of Stealth liposomal doxorubicin (Caelyx ALZA Corporation) administered concurrently with conventionally fractionated radiotherapy in the treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and head and neck cancer (HNC).Fifteen patients with NSCLC and 15 with squamous-cell HNC were recruited in two phase I dose-escalation trials. The starting dose of Caelyx was 10 mg/m(2) every 2 weeks (for three cycles during radiotherapy) and was increased by 5 mg/m(2) dose increments for every three patients.The maximum tolerated dose of Caelyx was 20 mg/m(2) for HNC and 25 mg/m(2) in NSCLC patients. Oral/pharyngeal mucositis was the dose-limiting toxicity for HNC patients. "In field" radiation skin toxicity was slightly increased. Hematologic toxicity was minimal. Single photon emission computed tomographic evaluation of Caelyx distribution, using technetium-99m-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid labeling, revealed a high intratumoral accumulation of the drug. The tumor to thoracic vessel area count ratio in the NSCLC cases ranged from 0.6 to 1.6 (mean +/- SD, 1.01 +/- 0.29), whereas this ratio was higher (0.8 to 1.85 mean +/- SD, 1.35 +/- 0.39) in HNC cases (P =.049). The complete response rate was 21% in the NSCLC cases and 75% in the HNC cases. NSCLC cases with higher Caelyx tumor accumulation responded better to the regimen. The tumor microvessel density assessed with the anti-CD31 monoclonal antibody directly correlated with the degree of the Caelyx accumulation (P =.007We conclude that combination of radiotherapy with Stealth liposomal doxorubicin is feasible. The potential role of such a regimen in the treatment of highly angiogenic tumors requires further investigation.