Predictive value of (99m)Tc-HMPAO-SPECT for neurological Outcome/Recovery at the acute stage of stroke. Combined perfusion and oxygen metabolism PET imaging is highly predictive of spontaneous outcome after middle cerebral artery (MCA) stroke, independent of clinical scores, but whether the assessment of perfusion alone by SPECT provides similar information remains unclear. We have assessed the prognostic value of (99m)Tc-HMPAO-SPECT at the acute stage of stroke.Twenty-seven first-ever nonhemorrhagic MCA territory stroke patients were prospectively studied 4-20 h (mean: 12 h) after onset with (99m)Tc-HMPAO-SPECT. None was part of a therapeutic trial or received thrombolysis. Neurological deficits were quantified at admission and 2 months later with Orgogozo's MCA scale. SPECT images were visually classified by 3 independent observers into one of three patterns, as follows: pattern I = marked and extensive tracer hypofixation pattern II = moderate and/or focal hypofixation with or without combined hyperfixation, and pattern III = normal or increased uptake without hypofixation. In addition to this visual analysis, we also calculated a voxel-based 'hypoperfusion score', an index of severity x extent of hypofixation according to Mountz's method.There was a good intra- and interobserver agreement. After consensus, 9, 14 and 4 patients were classified in patterns I, II and III, respectively. These patterns had a significant predictive value for raw outcome but not for percentage recovery (p = 0.008 and p = 0.127, respectively). Thus, all patients in pattern III had a good outcome, while most (but not all) patients in pattern I had a poor or intermediate outcome pattern II patients were more evenly distributed among outcomes. Hypoperfusion scores were highly significantly positively correlated with both 2-month outcomes and percentage recoveries, even after controlling the predictive value of day 0 MCA scores by partial correlations.We found that SPECT had a significant added predictive value even when compared to admission neurological scores. Although less accurate than PET, (99m)Tc-HMPAO-SPECT may help to predict spontaneous individual neurological evolution, especially whenever perfusion images are normal or show an increased tracer uptake without associated hypofixation.