Differential diagnosis of solitary pulmonary nodules based on 99mTc-EDDA/HYNIC-TOC scintigraphy: the effect of tumour size on the optimal method of image assessment. The aim of the study was to determine an optimal method for the evaluation of scintigrams obtained with (99m)Tc-EDDA/HYNIC-TOC for the purpose of differential diagnosis of solitary pulmonary nodules (SPNs) and to assess the diagnostic value of the method.Eighty-five patients (48 males and 37 females, mean age 57 years, range 34-78 years) were enrolled in the study. Patients underwent (99m)Tc-EDDA/HYNIC-TOC scintigraphy for the purpose of differential diagnosis of SPNs (size between 1 and 4 cm). Images of all patients were evaluated visually in a prospective manner.Positive scintigraphic results were found in 37 out of 40 (93%) patients with malignant SPNs including 34 out of 35 (97%) patients with primary lung carcinoma. Two remaining false negative cases turned out to be metastatic lesions of malignant melanoma and leiomyosarcoma. Among 45 benign tumours, negative results were obtained in 31 cases (69%) and positive results in 14. The accuracy of the method was 80%. Analysis of the results of the visual assessment of scintigrams revealed a significantly higher frequency of false positive results among larger nodules (diameter at least 1.4 cm). Uptake of the tracer in those nodules was therefore assessed semi-quantitatively (using the tumour-to-background ratio), in expectation of an improvement in the low specificity of the visual method. The semi-quantitative assessment reduced the total number of false positive results in a subgroup of larger nodules from 13 to six, while preserving the high sensitivity of the method.The combination of visual analysis (for lesions smaller than 1.4 cm in diameter) and semi-quantitative assessment (for larger lesions) provided a high sensitivity of the method and significantly improved its specificity (84%) and accuracy (88%) in comparison with visual analysis (p<0.05).