Complete rotational burst fracture of the third lumbar vertebra managed by posterior surgery. A case report. Case report of a young man with rotational burst fracture of the third lumbar vertebra, treated by posterior surgery.To describe the management of a rotational burst fracture of the third lumbar vertebra by posterior surgery consisting of reduction, decompression, fusion, and transpedicular instrumentation.Surgery is the generally recommended means of managing lumbar burst fractures with neurologic deficit. Some surgeons recommend anterior decompression, fusion, and instrumentation. Posterior surgery with decompression through laminectomy, spongioplasty of the vertebral body, interbody fusion of damaged discs, posterolateral fusion, and transpedicular fixation is also a safe and successful management technique. The combined approach consists of posterior decompression, fusion, transpedicular fixation, and anterior fusion using pelvic autografts. The optimum method of management remains in question.An 18-year-old man with complete rotational burst fracture of the third lumbar vertebra was treated by posterior surgery. This surgery consisted of reduction, laminectomy, decompression, structure of dural sac tears, spongioplasty of the vertebral body, interbody fusion of both damaged discs, and the implantation of a transpedicular Socon fixator (Aesculap, Tuttlingen, Germany), including a transverse connector. The case was documented by radiographs and computed tomography scans before surgery and after fixator removal 19 months after surgery.The patient healed solidly with no instrumentation failure. The neurologic deficit Frankel Grade B improved to Frankel Grade D.Surgery to manage lumbar burst fracture must include reduction, decompression, restoration and fusion of anterior and posterior elements by using autologous pelvic spongious autografts, and anterior or posterior instrumentation. Posterior surgery including suturing of dural sac tears, fusion of damaged structures, and transpedicular fixation is successful in young patients and patients with good bone quality.