Prevalence of cervical spine injuries in patients with facial trauma. Injuries to the spine may accompany facial trauma. By using a large computerized database the goal of this case control study was to assess the association between facial and cervical spine injuries among patients sustaining facial trauma.During a period of 4 years (1995 to 1998) 3083 patients, 10 years or older, with facial injuries were admitted to the University Hospital of Innsbruck's Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery for facial trauma. Records were analyzed for cause of injury, age and gender distribution, frequency and type of injury, and frequency of cervical spine injuries in relation to facial trauma and concomitant injuries. Two hundred six (6.7%) of these patients had experienced a concomitant cervical spine injury (case group). All other patients (2877) were assigned to the control group of facial trauma only.Facial trauma patients with concomitant cervical spine injuries were significantly older (mean age, 42 vs 34 years) no difference existed for the female/male ratio of 30:70. Sports trauma was the main cause of facial trauma in the control group (37.4%), yet traffic accidents accounted for 43.7% of combined facial and cervical spine injuries in the case group. Central mid face fractures dominated in the case group and lateral mid face fractures in the control group. In the case group cervical spine fractures and dislocations occurred in 19.2%. None of them showed evidence of paralysis. Concomitant brain injuries occurred in 21.6% of the case group and 8.8% of the control group. For patients sustaining facial trauma, logistic regression analysis revealed reduced risks for additional cervical spine injuries in younger patients, female patients, absence of brain injury, and in patients with facial soft tissue lesions alone (58.2%) or dental trauma alone (77.5%).The results of this study underline the importance of proper clinical and computed tomographic evaluation in cases of facial fractures for recognition of additional cervical spine trauma. Detection of cervical spine trauma can be missed, especially when pain or symptoms from other parts of the body dominate. The typical patient with concomitant neck and facial trauma is male, 40 years old, and usually involved in a traffic accident.