Diving injuries of the cervical spine in amateur divers. Diving injuries are the cause of potentially devastating trauma, primarily affecting the cervical spine.Our purpose was to describe our experience with diving injuries treatment.Retrospective review.Twenty patients with diving injuries.Using the American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) impairment scales as the primary outcome measure, the patients' neurological status before and after treatment was assessed. In this way we were able to draw conclusions about neurological improvement or deterioration in response to conservative or operative treatment.We retrospectively reviewed 20 patients with diving injuries of the cervical spine who were admitted to our institute over a 34-year period from 1970 until 2004.The typical patient profile was of a young, healthy, athletic male who suffered an injury to the cervical spine after diving into shallow water. The number of cases corresponds to 2.6% of all admitted cervical spine injuries. All injures occurred between May and September. The most commonly fractured vertebrae were C5 and C6. Four patients were treated operatively and 16 conservatively. The indications for surgical treatment were posttraumatic instability and persistent neurological deficit. The mean follow-up of the patients was 17 years. Five patients died within the first month of their hospitalization and 1 patient died 1 year after his injury. Of the 14 patients who were available for follow-up 5 years past injury time, 6 improved neurologically and 8 remained unchanged in relation to their neurology upon admission. Of the 11 patients who were available for follow-up 10 years past injury time, 9 remained neurologically unchanged, 1 deteriorated, and 1 improved in relation to their neurology in the 5-year follow-up.Diving injuries of the cervical spine demonstrate high mortality and morbidity rates. Recovery depends on the severity of the initial neurological damage. Conservative treatment is justified in specific patients and can lead to improvement of the initial neurological deficit.