Total spondylectomy and reconstruction for thoracolumbar spinal tumors with neurological deficit. To elucidate the surgical indications and treatment outcome of total spondylectomy and reconstruction for thoracolumbar spinal tumors with neurological deficit.From January 1999 to December 2005, 16 patients with thoracolumbar spinal tumors with neurological deficit were treated with total spondylectomy and reconstruction. There were 10 males and 6 females, with an average age of 31.5 years (16-62 years). There were 10 cases of primary tumors of spine (4 giant cell tumor of bone, 3 chondrosarcoma, 2 recurrent aneurysmal bone cyst, and 1 osteosarcoma), and 6 cases of solitary metastasis of thoracic or lumbar spine. Tomita's surgical classification was as follows: 9 cases of type 4, 6 of type 5, and 1 of type 6. Frankel's neurological classification was as follows: grade A in 1 case, B in 4, C in 7, and D in 4. All patients were treated with total spondylectomy and reconstruction through combined anterior and posterior approach.All patients were followed up from 10 to 63 months with an average of 27.5 months. Pain was relieved completely in all patients. The neurological function returned to grade D in 5 cases, to grade E in 11 cases. Among the 10 patients with primary spinal tumor, nine patients survived with tumor-free, and one with osteosarcoma died because of lung metastases 18 months after surgery. Among the 6 patients with spinal metastasis, three patients survived with tumor-free, and lung metastasis occurred in 1 case 10 months after surgery, two died because of multiple metastases of internal organs 10 months and 32 months after surgery.Total spondylectomy and reconstruction is a safe and effective surgery for thoracolumbar spinal tumors with neurological deficit, with pain relief, neurological improvement and minimum tumor recurrence. It will be an optimal choice for patients with primary malignant, aggressive benign, or solitary metastatic bone tumors of the thoracolumbar spine with Tomita surgical classification type 3 to 5.