Mineralization of the stylohyoid ligament complex in a Jordanian sample: a clinicoradiographic study. To record the prevalence of anatomic variations and the associated symptoms of mineralized stylohyoid complex (MSHC) in a Jordanian sample, and to investigate the possible factors responsible for mineralization.This study was conducted at the Dental Teaching Clinics of Jordan University of Science and Technology in patients referred for panoramic radiographs. The MSHC, on either side of panoramic radiographs, was mapped out on tracing paper, the length directly measured, and the true length calculated. The true length of the MSHC was used to classify every side into short, long, or elongated, and the radiographic type of long and elongated MSHCs was determined as elongated, pseudoarticulated, or segmented.A total of 867 MSHCs were traced with an overall average length of the 23.1 mm. The most frequent class and type were long (53.3%) and elongated (41.6%), respectively. There was a significantly (P < .05) progressive increase in the length of the MSHC. The frequency of both of elongated and pseudoarticulated types increased and that of the segmented type decreased with aging. The mean length of the MSHC for patients with a history of tonsillectomy (26.29 mm) was significantly higher (P < .05) than its value in patients without a history of tonsillectomy (22.70). There was also a significantly (P < .05) progressive increase in the length of the MSHC as the age when tonsillectomy was performed increased. The mean length of the MSHC for cases with history of recurrent tonsillitis (6.99 mm) was significantly higher (P < .05) than for those without (2.42 mm). The mean length of the MSHC for patients with a history of head-and-neck or whole-body trauma was not statistically significantly different (P > .05) from the value for the nontraumatized patients. The mean length of the MSHC for patients with arthritis (27.70 mm) was significantly higher (P < .05) than that in patients without arthritis (22.53 mm). The highest frequency of MSHC palpated in the tonsillar fossa was significantly (P < .05) related to the elongated class (44 64.8%) and type (100History of recurrent tonsillitis has a major effect on the true length of the MSHC, and trauma is not a significant factor for the development of longer MSHC.