Minimally invasive anterior transarticular screw fixation and microendoscopic bone graft for atlantoaxial instability. Even though transarticular screw (TAS) fixation has been commonly used for posterior C1-C2 arthrodesis in both traumatic and non-traumatic lesions, anterior TAS fixation C1-2 is a less invasive technique as compared with posterior TAS which produces significant soft tissue injury, and there were few reports on percutaneous anterior TAS fixation and microendoscopic bone graft for atlantoaxial instability. The goals of our study were to describe and evaluate a new technique for anterior TAS fixation of the atlantoaxial joints for traumatic atlantoaxial instability by analyzing radiographic and clinical outcomes.This was a retrospective study of seven consecutive patients with C1-C2 instability due to upper cervical injury treated by a minimally invasive procedure from May 2007 to August 2009. Bilateral anterior TAS were inserted by the percutaneous approach under Iso-C3D fluoroscopic control. The atlantoaxial joint space was prepared for morselized autogenous bone graft under microendoscopy. The data for analysis included time after the injuries, operating time, intraoperative blood loss, X-ray exposure time, clinical results, and complications. Radiographic evaluation included the assessment of atlantoaxial fusion rate and placement of TAS. Bone fusion of the atlantoaxial joints was assessed by flexion extension lateral radiographs and 1-mm thin-slice computed tomography images as radiographic results. Clinical assessment was done by analyzing the recovery state of clinical presentation from the preoperative period to the last follow-up and by evaluating complications.A total of 14 screws were placed correctly. The atlantoaxial solid fusion without screw failure was confirmed by CT scan in seven cases after a mean follow-up of 27.5 months (range 18-45 months). All patients with associated clinical presentation made a recovery without neurologic sequelae. Postoperative dysphagia occurred and disappeared in two cases within 5 days after surgery. There were no other complications during the follow-up period.Percutaneous anterior TAS fixation and microendoscopic bone graft could be an option for achieving C1-C2 stabilization with several potential advantages such as less tissue trauma and better accuracy. Bilateral TAS fixation and morselized autograft affords effective fixation and solid fusion by a minimally invasive approach.