Quantitative and sensitive assessment of neurophysiological status after human spinal cord injury. This study was designed to develop an objective and sensitive spinal cord injury (SCI) characterization protocol based on surface electromyography (EMG) activity.Twenty-four patients at both acute and chronic time points post-SCI, as well as 4 noninjured volunteers, were assessed using neurophysiological and clinical measures of volitional motor function. The EMG amplitude was recorded from 15 representative muscles bilaterally during standardized maneuvers as a neurophysiological assessment of voluntary motor function. International Standards for the Neurological Classification of Spinal Cord Injury (ISNCSCI) examinations were performed as a clinical assessment of lesion severity.Sixty-six functional neurophysiological assessments were performed in 24 patients with SCI and in 4 neurologically intact individuals. The collected EMG data were organized by quantitative parameters and statistically analyzed. The correlation between root mean square (RMS) of the EMG signals and ISNCSCI motor score was confirmed by Kendall correlation analysis. The Kendall correlation value between overall muscles/levels, motor scores, and the RMS of the EMG data is 0.85, with the 95% CI falling into the range of 0.76-0.95. Significant correlations were also observed for the soleus (0.51 [0.28-0.74]), tibialis anterior (TA) (0.53 [0.33-0.73]), tricep (0.52, [0.34-0.70]), and extensor carpi radialis (ECR) (0.80 [0.42-1.00]) muscles. Comparisons of RMS EMG values in groups defined by ISNCSCI motor score further confirmed these results. At the bicep and ECR, patients with motor scores of 5 had nearly significantly higher RMS EMG values than patients with motor scores of 0 (p = 0.059 and 0.052, respectively). At the soleus and TA, the RMS of the EMG value was significantly higher (p < 0.01) for patients with American Spinal Injury Association Impairment Scale motor scores of 5 than for those with ISNCSCI motor scores of 0. Those with C-7 ISNCSCI motor scores of 5 had significantly higher RMS EMG values at the tricep than those with motor scores of 4 (p = 0.008) and 0 (p = 0.02). Results also show that surface EMG signals recorded from trunk muscles allowed the examiner to pick up subclinical changes, even though no ISNCSCI scores were given.Surface EMG signal is suitable for objective neurological SCI characterization protocol design. The quantifiable features of surface EMG may increase SCI characterization resolution by adding subclinical details to the clinical picture of lesion severity and distribution.