Surgical stabilization of pathological neoplastic fractures. The most important factor to consider in deciding between treatment options in the management of metastatic bone disease is the level of the patient's dysfunction and pain. Severe dysfunction or pain demands a treatment that predictably leads to a quick resumption of the painless activities of daily living. A treatment that predictably will restore function in months may seem reasonable in patients with a normal remaining life span, but is untenable if those months represent a high percentage of remaining life span, as they do in metastatic disease afflicted patients. The treating physician needs also to understand the basis for the patient's dysfunction. A destroyed joint will not return to painless function even if the metastasis responsible is totally eliminated. A bone that has lost its structural integrity, even though not grossly fractured, will not support weight bearing for months even if the metastasis is eliminated. Control of the metastatic tumor does not always equate with return to function. Treatment options in the management of metastatic bone disease are not mutually exclusive. In many patients treatment options are combined. Surgical stabilization may best return the patient's function while he is being treated postoperatively with radiotherapy or chemotherapy for good neoplasm control. Neoplasm control should not be such an overriding concern that function is not addressed. Function can almost always be returned to the patient, but neoplasm "cure" is rarely achieved in this group of patients. It is a reasonable goal to avoid allowing bone metastasis to progress to pathological fracture. Routine periodic examinations and bone scans should commonly alert the treating physician to the presence of metastatic bone disease well before fracture occurs. Pathological fracture narrows the range of treatment options, mitigates against full functional restoration, demands a rehabilitation hiatus, and acutely frightens the patient who does not have time to participate fully in treatment decisions. An impending pathological fracture can be treated with surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, or hormonal manipulation. The options are basically operative or nonoperative. Lesions that predictably will fracture short term, involve joints, or will cause catastrophic consequences if fracture occurs should be strongly considered for surgical stabilization. Other factors to consider are the location of the metastasis, the primary tumor, and the expected response to nonoperative therapy. The patient becomes a surgical candidate for the above reasons and not because of any estimated life span.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)