Quantitative analysis of cerebral blood flow patterns in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy using composite SISCOM. Our objective was to demonstrate common patterns of ictal cerebral blood flow changes in a group of patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) using the technique of composite subtraction ictal SPECT coregistered to MRI (SISCOM).We retrospectively reviewed the video electroencephalography recordings, SPECT studies, and MR images of 32 MTLE patients and of a subgroup of 11 patients with pathologically verified mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS). Composite SISCOM studies were performed as previously described. The patients were grouped for analysis into those with right seizure onset and those with left seizure onset. The images of the right and left MTS subgroups were combined for analysis by rotating right MTS images to show changes on the left side. The SPECT subtractions were segmented to show regions of hyperperfusion at 1 SD above the mean. A rainbow color map was applied to the final composite SISCOM images to assist in the interpretation of results. Binomial probability was calculated to demonstrate the level of significance of perfusion changes.All patients demonstrated typical seizure semiology of MTLE. Seventeen patients had left MTLE and 15 patients had right MTLE. The levels of significance were set at 6 of 17 (P = 0.042) for the left MTLE group, 6 of 15 (P = 0.022) for the right MTLE group, and 5 of 11 (P = 0.021) for the MTS subgroup. Results among all groups were similar. The most-contiguous area of hyperperfusion was the anterior temporal area extending to include the insular cortex and basal ganglia, lateralizing to the side of seizure onset.Composite SISCOM studies in patients with well-localized MTLE most commonly show a region of hyperperfusion in the anterior temporal region, which often also involves the basal ganglia and insula, likely representing the primary regions of seizure propagation. Identifying this pattern of hyperperfusion as typical for mesial temporal onset seizures should assist in clinical interpretation and localization of ictal SPECT studies.