Enhanced apoptotic reaction correlates with suppressed tumor glucose utilization after cytotoxic chemotherapy: use of 99mTc-Annexin V, 18F-FDG, and histologic evaluation. Cancer chemotherapy enhances the apoptosis, whereas apoptosis is a suicidal mechanism requiring energy. We determined the relationship between apoptosis and glucose utilization during cancer chemotherapy using (99m)Tc-annexin V ((99m)Tc-annexin A5) and (18)F-FDG and compared their uptake with histologic findings in a rat tumor model.Allogenic hepatoma cells (KDH-8) were inoculated into the left calf muscle of male Wistar rats (WKA). Eleven days after the inoculation, the rats were randomly divided into 3 groups: The first group (n = 7) received a single dose of gemcitabine (90 mg/kg, intravenously), the second group (n = 8) received cyclophosphamide (150 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), and the third group (n = 7) was untreated and served as the control group. We injected (99m)Tc-annexin V 48 h after the chemotherapy and then injected (18)F-FDG to all rats 1 h before sacrifice. Six hours after (99m)Tc-annexin V injection, the rats were sacrificed and the organs, including the tumor, were removed and radioactivity was counted. The radioactivities of (18)F and (99m)Tc in the organs were determined using normalization by tissue weight. Histologic evaluation by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick-end labeling (TUNEL) method and the immunostaining of glucose transporter-1 (GLUT-1) were also performed to obtain the indices of apoptosis and glucose utilization, respectively. The rate of positively stained cells was calculated and analyzed statistically.After chemotherapy using gemcitabine and cyclophosphamide, the (99m)Tc-annexin V uptake (percentage injected dose per gram x kg [(%ID/g) x kg] mean +/- SD) in tumor increased significantly (0.062 +/- 0.012 (%ID/g) x kg in the gemcitabine-treated group and 0.050 +/- 0.012 (%ID/g) x kg in the cyclophosphamide group vs. 0.031 +/- 0.005 (%ID/g) x kg in the control groupThese data indicate that an enhanced apoptotic reaction correlated with suppressed tumor glucose utilization after cytotoxic chemotherapy as determined using radiotracers and histologic evaluation. The increase in (99m)Tc-annexin V and the decrease in (18)F-FDG in tumor can be useful markers for predicting therapeutic outcomes and for prognosis at the early stage of chemotherapy.