Can [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography imaging complement biopsy results from the iliac crest for the detection of bone marrow involvement in patients with malignant lymphoma? To assess the usefulness of [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in the detection of bone marrow involvement in malignant lymphoma, and its impact in clinical management.One hundred and six consecutive patients with a confirmed diagnosis of lymphoma, referred for staging or restaging of Hodgkin's lymphoma (n=18) or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (n=88), were reviewed retrospectively. A positron emission tomography scan and bone marrow biopsy of the iliac crest were performed in all patients. The assessment of bone marrow involvement by lymphoma was confirmed by histology and/or progression of bone marrow lesions in clinical follow-up.In 28 of 106 patients, bone marrow involvement was found. Positron emission tomography was more sensitive (86%) than bone marrow biopsy (57%). Positron emission tomography and bone marrow biopsy were concordant by positive correlation in 12 of 28 cases (43%) and by negative correlation in 77 of 78 cases (99%). Ten cases of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and two cases of Hodgkin's lymphoma with positive positron emission tomography results and an initial negative bone marrow biopsy showed clinical progression of the bone marrow lesions and/or subsequent positive histology. These were considered as false-negative results for bone marrow biopsy. In seven of the 12 positive cases with negative bone marrow biopsy, positron emission tomography uptake distant from the site of the biopsy was seen. In four cases of follicular lymphoma, the bone marrow biopsy was positive and the positron emission tomography scan was normal.Positron emission tomography and bone marrow biopsy are complementary in assessing the presence of bone marrow involvement in patients with malignant lymphoma. In our series, positron emission tomography was more sensitive than bone marrow biopsy in Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, except in follicular lymphoma.