Impact of FDG-PET/CT fused imaging on tumor volume assessment of head-and-neck squamous cell carcinoma: intermethod and interobserver variations. Although gross tumor volume (GTV) at the primary site can predict local control of head-and-neck squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) in patients who are treated with organ-preservation therapy, GTV assessment does not eliminate substantial interobserver variation.To evaluate whether F-18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET)/computed tomography (CT) fused imaging provides additional information for GTV assessment.We obtained FDG-PET/CT fused images on 20 patients with head-and-neck SCC. All had undergone preoperative conventional workup, including contrast-enhanced CT and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The GTV of the primary tumors was designed by two independent observers who used routine clinical data. Observer A was a radiologist and observer B a radiation oncologist. GTV1 and GTV2 were designed without and with FDG-PET/CT, respectively. For geometric interobserver comparison, we calculated the concordance rate as the ratio of the intersection (AxB) of the GTVs to their union (AxB). Intermethod (GTV1 vs. GTV2) and interobserver (A vs. B) differences in the GTVs were assessed by Bland-Altman analysis and the Spearman rank-correlation test. The interobserver concordance rates for GTV1 and GTV2 were compared using a two-tailed paired-samples t test.On FDG-PET/CT, all primary tumors were visualized. There was no systemic trend for a volume difference between GTV1 and GTV2. Although the 95% limits of agreement were wider for interobserver than intermethod differences, the 95% limits of interobserver agreement were narrower for GTV2 than GTV1. The mean interobserver concordance rate for GTV2 was higher than for GTV1 (54.5% vs. 39.1%, P=0.0002).FDG-PET/CT is a useful modality for consistent GTV assessment, which should not be used as a single modality but rather to obtain supplemental information in patients with head-and-neck SCC.