Imaging glucose metabolism in perfluorocarbon-perfused hepatocyte bioreactors using positron emission tomography. In vitro hepatocyte bioreactor functionality depends particularly on maintaining appropriate oxygen levels and exposure to nonparenchymal cells. An attractive solution without immunological consequences to the patient is incorporating a perfluorocarbon oxygen carrier in the circulating medium and co-culturing hepatocytes with stellate cells. Since bioreactors are normally sealed sterile units, demonstrating metabolic functionality is hindered by limited access to the cells after their aggregation in the matrix. A novel possibility is to use positron emission tomography (PET) to image cellular radioactive glucose uptake under O(2)-limited conditions. In this study, primary cell isolation procedures were carried out on eight pigs. Pairs of cell-seeded and cell-free (control) bioreactors with and without perfluorocarbon were cultured under identical conditions and were oxygenated using hypoxic (5% O(2)) and ambient (20% O(2)) gas mixes. Sixteen PET scans were conducted 24 h after cell isolation, the same timescale as that involved in treating a liver failure patient with a primary-cell bioreactor. In all cases, cell-seeded bioreactors without perfluorocarbon were more radioactive, i.e., were more glycolytic, than those with perfluorocarbon. This difference was significant in the hypoxic pair of bioreactors but not in the ambient pair of bioreactors. Additionally, in the same hypoxic bioreactors, circulating extracellular steady-state glucose levels were significantly lower and lactate levels were higher than those in the ambient bioreactors. Similar findings have been made in other in vitro hepatocyte studies investigating the effects of perfluorocarbons. PET is attractive for studying in situ O(2)-dependent bioreactor metabolism because of its visual and numerically quantifiable outputs. Longer-term metabolic studies (e.g., 5-10 days) investigating the effect of perfluorocarbon on bioreactor longevity will complement these findings in the future.