Regional brain glucose metabolism in drug free schizophrenic patients and clinical correlates. Regional brain glucose metabolism was investigated in healthy volunteers (n = 10) and in drug free schizophrenic patients (n = 20). The metabolism was determined by positron emission tomography (PET) with 11C-glucose as the tracer. Diagnosis of schizophrenia was made according to RDC and DSM III. Eight patients had their first psychotic episode, four patients had a subchronic course and eight patients had a chronic course with an exacerbation of their illness. Computed tomography (CT) of the brain were made in all the subjects. Regions of interest (n = 35) were drawn on displayed CT images and the marked regions were transferred to the corresponding slice of the PET examination. The PET investigation was made in a dimly lit, quiet room with the eyes of the subject covered. The time course of the 11C-glucose uptake was measured by a four ring PET scanner (PC-384-7B). Metabolic rates of glucose varied greatly among the schizophrenic patients investigated. The variance was significantly greater than that of the controls in most regions. Decreases in mean levels of metabolic rates were related to patients with subchronic or chronic courses. Changes in metabolism were not related to previous duration of neuroleptic treatment of the patients. Left-right asymmetries were found in the temporal lobe (area 22) and the basal frontal cortex (area 11), the metabolic rates of the patients being lower on the left side compared to the controls. Asymmetry of the metabolic rate of the amygdala in hebephrenic patients was the opposite of that found in paranoid patients and controls. Negative correlations between regional metabolic rates and autistic or negative symptoms were found. Thus, the lower the metabolic rate was, the more autistic the patient. Metabolic rates were not correlated to atrophic changes of the brain. No basis for a specific alteration in frontal cortical metabolism of schizophrenics was obtained. Changes in regional metabolic rates in schizophrenia are suggested to reflect disturbances in more general mechanisms which are of importance in neuronal function.