Iodine-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine images reflect intense myocardial adrenergic nervous activity in congestive heart failure independent of underlying cause. This study was undertaken to assess myocardial adrenergic activity using iodine-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) imaging in patients with heart failure.In patients with congestive heart failure, adrenergic nerve activity is accelerated. However, whether myocardial adrenergic nerve activity reflects the severity of heart failure and its relation to the underlying cause have not yet been elucidated.Planar MIBG images were obtained from 96 patients with heart failure and compared with images from 9 age-matched healthy subjects. Groups 1 and 2 included 65 patients with heart failure related to impaired myocardial function and whose left ventricular ejection fraction was < 40% (group 1 = 40 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy group 2 = 25 patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy). Group 3 included 31 patients with heart failure related to a mechanical abnormality and whose left ventricular ejection fraction was > 40% (mitral regurgitation in 16, aortic regurgitation in 9, aortic and mitral regurgitation in 4, ruptured aneurysm of Valsalva in 2). Myocardial uptake of MIBG was calculated as the heart/mediastinal activity ratio. Storage and release of MIBG were calculated as percent myocardial MIBG washout from 15 min to 4 h after isotope injection.The heart/mediastinal activity ratio in the immediate images (15 min) showed a significant decrease only in patients with severe heart failure (groups 1 and 2). The myocardial washout was accelerated in all three heart failure groups. The level of myocardial washout was related to severity of heart failure and correlated well with New York Heart Association functional classification.In severe heart failure associated with cardiomyopathy, norepinephrine uptake is reduced. In addition, myocardial adrenergic nerve activity is accelerated in proportion to severity of heart failure, independent of the underlying cause.