Utilization of evidence-based computerized order sets in pediatrics. Little is known about utilization of different evidence-based order sets within computerized physician order entry (CPOE) systems. We designed a retrospective study of resident and attending physician order set utilization to evaluate the use of three evidence-based computerized order sets (asthma, post-appendectomy care, and community-acquired pneumonia (CAP)), and examine patient and admission characteristics associated with order set utilization in pediatrics. We studied all 529 asthma patients, 277 appendectomy patients, and 210 CAP patients admitted between 1 November 2001 and 30 November 2003 during implementation of standardized order sets at a large, independent, not-for-profit pediatric institution. We analyzed order set utilization for the three order sets and tested the relationship between order set use and potential factors associated with utilization. Order set utilization varied by condition (X(2)=339.2, p<0.001), with the asthma order set use rate highest (88.1%), followed by appendectomy order set utilization (79.4%), and substantially lower CAP order set use (21.1%). We found that trends in order set utilization also varied by condition. Only the asthma order set showed a trend of increasing use after implementation (z= -3.02, p=0.002). In addition, factors associated with order set utilization varied. Uses of the asthma and post-appendectomy order sets were associated with factors such as admission unit and case complexity. CAP order set utilization was associated with case complexity but not admission source. We conclude that health services organizations looking to implement computerized order sets to reduce unnecessary practice variation while promoting best practices must consider the different factors that may influence the use of each order set rather than relying on a one-size-fits-all implementation strategy. Further, issues such as the level of physician involvement in order set development and consensus around order set content may be particularly important factors influencing order set utilization.