Perspectives on research and diseases of the Tropics: an Asian view. Diarrhea, pneumonia, and malnutrition account for most of mortality and morbidity in children in developing countries.  The Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI) is making progress with more than 50% of children under the age of 1 year receiving vaccination against the 6 EPI-listed diseases.  The eradication of poliomyelitis by 2000 is realistic, so that the world could be smallpox- and polio-free by the 21st century. In July-August 1988 a cholera epidemic erupted in Delhi, India in which several hundreds died.  The combined whole cell and toxin-B subunit oral vaccine against cholera has shown a decrease in protection from around 75-80% at the end of 6 months to around 60% at the end of 2 years. Typhoid fever affecting close to 8 million people in Asia has been treated with the improved formulation of TY21A vaccine and with the Vi polysaccharide capsular surface antigen in encouraging trials in Nepal. Co-trimoxazole has reduced child mortality caused by acute lower respiratory tract infections at the community level.  3 oral antirabies vaccines have been found safe, and oral baits have been effective. Chloroquine-resistant Plasmodium falciparum malaria is a major problem in may Asian countries involving sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine combinations as well.  Lymphatic filariasis is expressed clinically as elephantiasis.  More than 90 million people are believed to be infected.  Ivermectin in a single dose as low as 25 mcg/kg of body weight was shown to be microfilaricidal in lymphatic filariasis. Allopurinol riboside is effective against visceral leishmaniasis or kala-azar.  Leprosy and tuberculosis continue to be major health problems in Asia.  There have been encouraging advances in immunization against cancers of the tropics, such as hepatitis B and primary carcinoma of the liver, the human papilloma virus and cancer of the uterine cervix, the Epstein-Barr virus and Burkitt's lymphoma, and nasopharyngeal carcinoma.