Prognostic classification for esophageal atresia and tracheoesophageal fistula: Waterston versus Montreal. Since 1962, the Waterston classification has been used to stratify neonates who have esophageal atresia (EA) and/or tracheoesophageal fistula (TEF) into prognostic categories based on birth weight, the presence of pneumonia, and the identification of other congenital anomalies. In response to advances in neonatal care, the surgeons from the Montreal Children's Hospital proposed a new categorization system in 1993 in an attempt to define the current risk factors for patients who have EA/TEF. In the Montreal experience only two characteristics independently affected survival: preoperative ventilator dependence and associated major anomalies. The goal of this study was to determine which system had the greatest validity for the evaluation of prognosis in our patients with EA/TEF. The charts of 94 patients who had EA/TEF treated between 1972 and 1991 were reviewed. Patients were classified using both the Waterston and Montreal systems. Groups were compared with Fisher's Exact test using a 95% confidence level for statistical significance. Eleven infants were ventilator dependent preoperatively 62 children had major associated anomalies, 8 of which were considered life threatening. Sixteen children died within 4 years, eight during their initial hospital stay. Five of the eight early postoperative deaths occurred in the highest-risk patients (Waterston C or Montreal II). Analysis was performed for multiple risk factors and mortality. As in the Montreal study, the presence of life-threatening and major congenital anomalies represented significant risk factors for death. Pulmonary disease as delineated by ventilator dependence appeared to be more accurate than pneumonia. This study confirms the accuracy of the Montreal classification in defining prognosis for EA/TEF. The Montreal system more accurately identifies children at highest risk than the Waterston classification.