Asialoglycoprotein receptor concentration in tumor-bearing livers and its fate early after their sectorial resection. The aim of the present study was to investigate asialoglycoprotein receptor (ASGP-R) status in tumor-bearing livers and early after their sectorial resection employing 99mTc-DTPA-galactosyl human serum albumin (99mTc-GSA) dynamic SPECT.Ten normal liver controls and 44 liver tumor patients who underwent sectorial hepatectomy were included in the study. 99mTc-GSA dynamic SPECT study was performed 7 +/- 3 d before (pre-operative) and 34 +/- 13 d after surgery (post-operative) in liver tumour patients. Pre- and post-operative parameters including hepatic functional volume and 99mTc-GSA clearance of unit hepatic functional volume, representing ASGP-R concentration, were measured. The sum of functional volume of the sectors uninvolved in hepatectomy was defined as residual functional volume. Subsequently, post-operative change in functional volume (the ratio of post-operative to residual functional volume), post-operative change in 99mTc-GSA clearance of unit hepatic functional volume (the ratio of post- to pre-operative 99mTc-GSA clearance of unit hepatic functional volume) and percent resection of functional volume were calculated.Pre-operative 99mTc-GSA clearance of unit hepatic functional volume in tumor-bearing livers was significantly lower than that in non-tumor bearing control liver. The ratio of post- to pre-operative 99mTc-GSA clearance of unit hepatic functional volume showed marked variation from 0.57 to 2.14, which negatively correlated with the percent resection of functional volume (r = -0.58, p < 0.0001). The ratio of post- to pre-operative 99mTc-GSA clearance of unit hepatic functional volume exhibited a negative correlation with the ratio of post-operative to estimated residual functional volume (r = -0.67, p < 0.0001).ASGP-R concentration is reduced in the presence of liver tumor. ASGP-R concentration reveals variable changes early after sectorial resection the change negatively correlates with percent resection of hepatic functional volume. Post-operative change in ASGP-R concentration negatively correlates with change in functional volume.