A method to remove artifacts in attenuation-corrected myocardial perfusion SPECT Introduced by misalignment between emission scan and CT-derived attenuation maps. Nonuniform soft-tissue attenuation affects the diagnostic accuracy of SPECT in myocardial perfusion imaging. The attenuation map required for attenuation correction can be acquired using x-ray tomography (CT). Frequent findings in attenuation-corrected images are defects in the apical and anterior myocardial wall. We assume that these are artifacts produced by misalignment of SPECT images and the attenuation map.One hundred forty patients underwent myocardial perfusion imaging with 99mTc-methoxyisobutylisonitrile. Twenty-seven of 140 showed pronounced defects in the apical or anterior wall only after CT-based attenuation correction. SPECT and corresponding CT slices were examined for misalignment in the ventrodorsal direction (y-direction) visually and by threshold-based delineation of the body surface. Mismatched studies were realigned and image reconstruction and analysis were redone. The effect of the correction was assessed visually and by semiquantitative analysis based on a 20-segment model using 4D-MSPECT.In 15 of 27 patients, the improved coregistration led to smaller and less-pronounced defects in the regions mentioned. In 6 of 27 patients, former defects were judged as normal. No improvement was seen in only 4 patients. In these 4 subjects, the mismatch in the y-direction was <1 pixel (7 mm), and visual inspection suggested a coincident mismatch in the craniocaudal direction. In 2 cases, coregistration was not possible because the body outline extended beyond the CT field of view. Semiquantitative analysis revealed a significant increase of the relative uptake in the apex in the apical segments of the anterior, septal, and inferior wallMisalignment in the y-direction between SPECT and the attenuation map can lead to artifacts in the apical, septal, and anterior wall, which will appear as defects. It also can cause overcorrection in the basal inferior and lateral segments. There is evidence that mismatches along the other directions may have a similar effect. The coregistration of SPECT and the attenuation map needs to be verified for every patient, even when using integrated dual-modality imaging devices.