Metabolic evidence of viable myocardium in regions with reduced wall thickness and absent wall thickening in patients with chronic ischemic left ventricular dysfunction. Reduced end-diastolic wall thickness with absent systolic wall thickening has been reported to represent nonviable myocardium in patients with chronic coronary artery disease. To assess whether reduced regional end-diastolic wall thickness and absent wall thickening accurately identify nonviable myocardium, 25 patients with ischemic left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction at rest 27 +/- 10%) underwent positron emission tomography with oxygen-15-labeled water and 18fluorodeoxyglucose to assess metabolic activity and spin-echo gated nuclear magnetic resonance imaging to measure regional end-diastolic wall thickness and wall thickening. The presence of metabolic activity was defined as 18fluorodeoxyglucose uptake (corrected for partial volume) greater than 50% of that in normal regions. Of 355 myocardial regions evaluated, 266 were hypokinetic or normokinetic at rest and 89 were akinetic (that is, absent wall thickening). 18Fluorodeoxyglucose uptake was observed in 97% of the hypokinetic and normokinetic regions and in 74% of the akinetic regions. End-diastolic wall thickness was greater in akinetic regions with than in those without 18fluorodeoxyglucose uptake (11 +/- 4 vs. 7 +/- 3 mm, p less than 0.01). The highest values for sensitivity and specificity of end-diastolic wall thickness in predicting the absence of metabolic activity in akinetic regions were 74% and 79%, respectively, and corresponded to an end-diastolic threshold of 8 mm. However, the positive predictive accuracy was only 55% and did not improve for other end-diastolic wall thickness values. In all myocardial regions, there was only a weak correlation between 18fluorodeoxyglucose activity and either end-diastolic wall thickness (r = 0.17) or wall thickening (r = 0.32). Thus, metabolic activity is present in many regions with reduced end-diastolic wall thickness and absent wall thickening. These data indicate that assessment of regional anatomy and function may be inaccurate in distinguishing asynergic but viable myocardium from nonviable myocardium.