Virtual neck exploration: a new method for localizing abnormal parathyroid glands. Computed tomography (CT) together with 99mTc-sestamibi single photon emission computed tomography (MIBI-SPECT) image fusion (CT-MIBI-SPECT image fusion) allows virtual exploration of the neck. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether CT-MIBI-SPECT image fusion is superior to MIBI-SPECT and CT in detecting abnormal parathyroid glands in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism.CT-MIBI-SPECT image fusion for preoperative localization was performed in 116 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT). Both investigations were performed with reproducible fixation of the patient on a vacuum mattress. At a special work station the neck was virtually explored by viewing the CT images in all 3 dimensions. The MIBI-SPECT images were superimposed on underlying CT images. Only patients with single-gland disease were evaluated (pHPT: 112, persistent pHPT: 1, recurrent pHPT: 1, persistent secondary hyperparathyroidism: 1, tertiary HPT after kidney transplantation: 1). CT-MIBI-SPECT image fusion results were compared with those obtained with CT alone and MIBI-SPECT alone. The predicted positions were correlated with the intraoperative findings.CT-MIBI-SPECT image fusion was able to predict the exact position of the abnormal gland in 102 (88%) of the 116 patients, whereas CT alone showed in 75 (65%) patients and MIBI-SPECT alone in 64 (55%) patients the exact position of the abnormal gland. Sixty-two patients underwent minimally invasive surgery, namely in 21 patients with a unilaterally focused approach and in 33 patients with a bilateral approach (27 of these underwent simultaneous thyroid resection). Sensitivity for CT-MIBI-SPECT image fusion was 88%, for CT alone 70%, and for MIBI-SPECT alone 59%. Specificity for CT-MIBI-SPECT image fusion was 99%, for MIBI-SPECT alone 95%, for CT alone 94%. Overall accuracy for CT-MIBI-SPECT image fusion was 97%, for CT alone 89%, for MIBI-SPECT 87%.This study provides evidence that CT-MIBI-SPECT image fusion is superior to CT or MIBI-SPECT alone for preoperative localization of enlarged parathyroid glands in patients with single-gland primary hyperparathyroidism.