Altered white matter structure of the dentatorubrothalamic pathway in children with autistic spectrum disorders. Neuropathological studies have demonstrated decreased Purkinje cells in cerebellar cortex and changes in the dentate nucleus of the cerebellum, the projection target for the Purkinje cells, in autistic spectrum disorders (ASD). The dentatorubrothalamic tract is formed by efferents from the dentate nucleus projecting toward the red nucleus with axon collaterals to this nucleus and continuing to innervate the ventral lateral and ventral anterior nuclei of the thalamus. In the current study, we assessed whether the dentatorubrothalamic tract is altered in ASD using Q-ball imaging (QBI). The QBI tractography was performed in 13 children with high functioning ASD (HFA), 11 children with low functioning ASD (LFA), and 14 typically developing children (TD). Regions of interest in dentate nucleus and red nucleus in both hemispheres were objectively placed to sort bilateral dorsal-rostral (DR), dorsal-caudal (DC), ventral-rostral (VR), and ventral-caudal (VC) portions of the dentatorubrothalamic pathway. Group differences in fractional anisotropy (FA), axial diffusivity, radial diffusivity, and fiber volume of individual pathways were analyzed. Significantly reduced FA was found in children with LFA and HFA, compared to the TD group in tracts originating in all four subdivisions of the right dentate nucleus. Tract-based morphometry (TBM) analysis demonstrated significant reductions of FA in caudal midbrain (p<0.0001), dorsal-caudal dentate (p=0.0013), and ventral-caudal dentate (p=0.0061) on the right in the LFA group. The FA values in TBM segments of right VR and VC pathways were significantly correlated with communication skills in the combined HFA/LFA group, while there was a significant correlation found between TBM segments of right DR pathway and daily living skills (r=0.76 p=0.004). Decreased white matter integrity in dorsal portions of the dentatorubrothalamic tract may be related to motor features in ASD, while changes in the ventral portions are related more to communication behavior.