Postchemotherapy resections of residual masses from metastatic non-seminomatous testicular germ cell tumors. To analyse the frequencies of histological findings, predictive factors for the presence of undifferentiated tumor and variables influencing the survival of patients with non-seminomatous germ cell tumors who underwent secondary resection of residual masses after cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy.134 patients with a median age of 26 years (15-47) undergoing at least one surgical intervention at Hannover University Medical School were included. One hundred nine patients had received first-line chemotherapy and 25 underwent surgery after second-line chemotherapy.After first-line chemotherapy the distribution of histological findings was 52% necrosis, 27% differentiated teratoma and 21% undifferentiated tumor for 82 patients with marker negative PR (PRm-). Incompletely resected mass and failure to achieved complete tumor marker normalisation were significantly associated with the finding of undifferentiated tumor. Five-year progression-free survival rates according to histological findings were 78%, 67% and 66% for necrosis, differentiated teratoma and undifferentiated tumor. Patients with undifferentiated tumor in the resected specimen routinely received postoperative additional chemotherapy. Factors associated with a worse overall survival were progressive disease within three months, persistent AFP elevation prior to surgery, prechemotherapy elevated LDH levels or mediastinal lymph node involvement at primary diagnosis. In 8 of 27 patients (30%) undergoing multiple resections at different sites a dissimilar histology was found. In the 25 patients operated after salvage chemotherapy undifferentiated tumor was found in 80%. A five-year survival of 44% compared to 80% after first-line chemotherapy was achieved.Resection of residual tumors after first-line chemotherapy remains essential in the treatment of metastatic testicular cancer. Undifferentiated tumor may still be found in 20% of patients despite achieving PRm-after first-line chemotherapy. Necrosis is found in only 50% of marker normalized patients after first-line and approximately 30% after second-line chemotherapy. Future studies have to prove whether the combination of clinical prognostic factors and the use of PET-scanning will allow to spare subsets of patients from secondary resection.