Further clinical evaluations elicited by functional biological investigations in childhood autism. As childhood autism is usually considered as a developmental disorder, complete assessment of each patient requires non only clinical examination but various biological investigations: EEG and evoked potentials recordings, biochemical dosages and sometimes, cerebral blood flow measures, molecular biologic explorations.... These investigations help to understand neurophysiological dysfunctionings which underly different autistic syndromes. It therefore seems necessary to develop quantified clinical tools which could allow closer matching between clinical evaluations and biological numerical data. These complementary evaluations must be both simple and quick to perform in medical practice, as they are added to an already heavy clinical examination. The main tools used in our bioclinical Department are described here. For each child, psychiatric, pediatric and neurological examination was performed. Different scales were progressively elaborated and validated to complete and precise behavioral parameters. Attention and perception were evaluated by a Behavior Summarized Evaluation (BSE) scale, association and imitation by appropriate scales, language by the Pre-Verbal Behavior Summarized Evaluation (PV-BSE) scale, early symptoms by the Infant Behavior Summarized Evaluation (t-BSE) scale. The main neurophysiological dysfunctionings were grouped in a Behavioral Functional Inventory (BFI). Clinical genetic data were scored in a summarized assessment carrying both on the antecedents and on the somatic abnormalities. The completed clinical data were gathered in a Quantified Multidimensional Assessment (QMA), with four axes: socialization, communication, cognition and neurological observation. These clinical evaluations provide behavioral details that can be integrated into a bioclinical database and give an objective approach to the heterogeneity of autism. They invite both clinicians and biologists to deepen the description of individual profiles which allow better understanding of physiopathological mechanisms in autistic children.