Application of an [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose-sensitive probe for the intraoperative detection of malignancy. Whole-body positron emission tomography (PET) has been shown to be a highly sensitive method for detecting malignancy not imaged by conventional modalities. We have adapted a hand-held gamma-ray-sensitive probe to detect the radiation emission from the [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) used in PET imaging. This pilot study was devised to examine the feasibility of using a hand-held probe to intraoperatively differentiate normal from tumor-bearing tissue.A commercially available gamma probe was adapted to detect the radioactivity released from FDG and examined to determine the in vitro sensitivity for localization of a FDG point source. Eight consecutive patients underwent resection of metastatic colon cancer or melanoma each received a preoperative injection of 7--10 mCi of FDG. The gamma probe was used to determine radioactive counts per second from tumor and normal tissue, and ratios of tumor to adjacent normal background were calculated.In vitro studies with a FDG point source demonstrated the probe could identify the source with a 50% reduction in maximum counts 1.7 +/- 0.1 cm from the source (full-width half-maximum measurement). Based on the results of their preoperative PET scans 17 tumors were identified from the 8 patients. Of the 17 tumors assessed the in vivo tumor-to-background ratios varied from 1.16:1 to 4.67:1 for the melanoma patients (13 tumors) and from 1.19:1 to 7.92:1 for colon cancer patients (4 tumors). Thirteen tumors were resected four (2 patients) were unresectable.This study demonstrates the use of a hand-held gamma-ray-sensitive probe to intraoperatively differentiate the radioactivity released from FDG from tumor-bearing and adjacent normal tissue. While further studies are necessary for us to optimize the use of this probe, the intraoperative detection of FDG-avid malignancies may ultimately improve our ability to completely resect patients with metastatic disease.