The influence of post-exercise cardiac changes on thallium-gated myocardial perfusion scintigraphy findings in normal subjects. During recovery after exercise, the heart rate and blood pressure return to a resting state more rapidly than the end-systolic left ventricular dimensions and fractional shortening. The aim of this study was to assess how exercise-related cardiac changes affect the interpretation of myocardial perfusion images in normal subjects. Systolic cardiac parameters on gated stress and rest images were evaluated in healthy young and elderly subjects.Twenty-six healthy young and 20 healthy elderly subjects participated in the study. An injection of 111-130 MBq of thallium-201 (201Tl) was given at peak exercise. Rest images were acquired 2.5 h after stress acquisition, 15 min after a second injection of 18.5-37 MBq of 201Tl. Data were analysed using automatic-processing software for quantitative gated single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) (QGS). The parameters derived from QGS were the end-systolic volume (ESV), end-diastolic volume (EDV), left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), end-systolic surface area (ESSA) and end-diastolic surface area (EDSA). The difference between wall thickening in the basal and apical segments (Delta WT) was also calculated. Perfusion images were visually assessed for differences in cardiac size, evidence of reversible hypoperfusion and hot spots.In the young group, LVEF was approximately 6% higher at stress than at rest. EDV, ESV, ESSA and EDSA were all significantly lower, and Delta WT was significantly higher, at stress than at rest. In the elderly group, the mean LVEF at stress was slightly higher than the finding at rest (P<0.05). Visual evaluation of perfusion images revealed mild reversible stress hypoperfusion in the inferoseptal region in eight young male subjects.In healthy young subjects, post-exercise cardiac changes affect systolic functions detected on gated thallium myocardial perfusion scintigraphy, resulting in a smaller heart size during stress. This finding, accompanied by a significant difference in apex to base counts during stress, may cause basal portions of the heart to appear ischaemic. The absence of these findings in the elderly suggests a decrease in contractility with age.