Estrogen therapy and brain muscarinic receptor density in healthy females: a SPET study. Estrogen Therapy (ET) may protect against age-related cognitive decline and neuropsychiatric disorders (e.g. Alzheimer's disease). The biological basis for this putative neuroprotective effect is not fully understood, but may include modulation of cholinergic systems. Cholinergic dysfunction has been implicated in age-related memory impairment and Alzheimer's disease. However, to date no one has investigated the effect of long-term ET on brain cholinergic muscarinic receptor aging, and related this to cognitive function. We used Single Photon Emission Tomography (SPET) and (R,R)[(123)I]-I-QNB, a novel ligand with high affinity for m(1)/m(4) muscarinic receptors, to examine the effect of long-term ET and age on brain m(1)/m(4) receptors in healthy females. We included 10 younger premenopausal subjects and 22 postmenopausal women 11 long-term ET users (all treated following surgical menopause) and 11 ET never-users (surgical menopause, n=2). Also, verbal memory and executive function was assessed in all postmenopausal subjects. Compared to young women, postmenopausal women (ET users and never-users combined) had significantly lower muscarinic receptor density in all brain regions examined. ET users also had higher muscarinic receptor density than ET never-users in all the brain regions, and this reached statistical significance in left striatum and hippocampus, lateral frontal cortex and thalamus. Moreover, in ET users, (R,R)[(123)I]-I-QNB binding in left hippocampus and temporal cortex was significantly positively correlated with plasma estradiol levels. We also found evidence for improved executive function in ET users as compared to ET never-users. However, there was no significant relationship between receptor binding and cognitive function within any of the groups. In healthy postmenopausal women use of long-term ET is associated with reduced age-related differences in muscarinic receptor binding, and this may be related to serum estradiol levels.