Feasibility study on using an infrared thermometer for evaluation and administration of cryosurgery. Successful performance of cryosurgery relies heavily on a quick, efficient, safe and economic imaging way to monitor the surgical advancement and then to evaluate the curative effect. However, there is currently a lack of such an imaging modality. As for the commonly adopted imaging devices such as X-CT, MRI and PET, in addition their high cost and complexity in operation, they often induce additional scathe to the patients due to their potential radiation effects. Besides, in cryosurgery, the most important parameter - temperature - can not be directly detected by these methods. Considering the above factors, infrared thermography (IRT), a rather useful yet often neglected functional imaging technique in clinics, is proposed in this paper as an efficient tool for the quick evaluation and administration of a cryosurgical treatment of tumors. Based on skin surface temperature mapping, the degree of damage to the target tissue site caused by different freezing/heating protocols, as well as the states of blood circulation and metabolic heat generation within the treated region can possibly be identified. Further, through recording the temperature variation feature at the skin surface before and after cryosurgery, IRT would help to quickly evaluate the curative effect, which is very beneficial for later treatment planning. By detecting the surface infrared image and analyzing its digital values, the patient's invisible focus and abnormal physiological states, e.g. inflammations or pneumothorax, often accompanied by cryosurgical output yet difficult to determine via conventional imaging, could also possibly be diagnosed. To test the above concepts, both typical animal and clinical experiments were performed to demonstrate the feasibility and advantages of IRT-guided cryosurgery. This study may help push forward a novel, low-cost and non-contact way for an efficient performance of cryosurgery.