Development of photothermal microactuator based on spectral analysis of photothermal expansion material. The spectral characteristic of materials is the key factor of the photothermal microactuator's performance. The present article introduces the operating principle, and analyzes the relationship between the material spectral characteristic and its expansion. As the photothermal microactuator is an innovative microactuator based on photothermal expansion that absorbs the laser energy and converts it into internal energy to realize the microdrive, the optimal photothermal expansion material with proper absorption spectrum characteristic matching the spectrum of light driving source needs to be found. The reflection and absorption spectra of four types of polymeric material, including PVC, HDPE, LDPE and PET, were obtained by using the single integrating sphere method. The results indicate that the reflection spectrum of the dyed high-density polyethylene (HDPE) is of double-peak structure in visible band, and there is strong absorption within the range of 600-690 nm, which means it would match the light driving source quite well in the broad spectral range. Therefore, HDPE was chosen as the photothermal expansion material. In order to check out the feasibility and performance of the photothermal microactuactor based on HDPE, a prototyping microactuator 1 500 mm in length and 30 mm in thickness was manufactured by using an excimer laser micromachining system. With a laser diode (10 mW/650 nm) as the external power source to activate the microactuator, performance measurement experiments were carried out by using a self-produced video movement measurement system with a CCD-coupled microscope. The experiment results demonstrate that the deflection of the microactuator reaches 18.7 mm at 10 mW of laser power, showing that the characteristics of spectral absorption and light-heat transition are quite well at 650 nm. This novel photothermal microactuator has simple structure, adjustable displacement output, and more mobility, and can be controlled remotely, so it will be quite useful for applications in the fields of micro-optical-electro-mechanical systems (MOEMS).