Cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging in small animals. Noninvasive imaging studies involving small animals are becoming increasingly important in preclinical pharmacological, genetic, and biomedical cardiovascular research. Especially small animal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) using high field and clinical MRI systems has gained significant importance in recent years. Compared to other imaging modalities, like computer tomography, MRI can provide an excellent soft tissue contrast, which enables the characterization of different kinds of tissues without the use of contrast agents. In addition, imaging can be performed with high spatial and temporal resolution. Small animal MRI cannot only provide anatomical information about the beating murine heart it can also provide functional and molecular information, which makes it a unique imaging modality. Compared to clinical MRI examinations in humans, small animal MRI is associated with additional challenges. These included a smaller size of all cardiovascular structures and a up to ten times higher heart rate. Dedicated small animal monitoring devices make a reliable cardiac triggering and respiratory gating feasible. MRI in combination with molecular probes enables the noninvasive imaging of biological processes at a molecular level. Different kinds of iron oxide or gadolinium-based contrast agents can be used for this purpose. Compared to other molecular imaging modalities, like single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET), MRI can also provide imaging with high spatial resolution, which is of high importance for the assessment of the cardiovascular system. The sensitivity for detection of MRI contrast agents is however lower compared to sensitivity of radiation associated techniques like PET and SPECT. This chapter is divided into the following sections: (1) "Introduction," (2) "Principals of Magnetic Resonance Imaging," (3) "MRI Systems for Preclinical Imaging and Experimental Setup," and (4) "Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance Imaging."