Optimized in vivo detection of dopamine release using 18F-fallypride PET. The high-affinity D(2/3) PET radioligand (18)F-fallypride offers the possibility of measuring both striatal and extrastriatal dopamine release during activation paradigms. When a single (18)F-fallypride scanning protocol is used, task timing is critical to the ability to explore both striatal and extrastriatal dopamine release simultaneously. We evaluated the sensitivity and optimal timing of task administration for a single (18)F-fallypride PET protocol and the linearized simplified reference region kinetic model in detecting both striatal and extrastriatal reward-induced dopamine release, using human and simulation studies.Ten healthy volunteers underwent a single-bolus (18)F-fallypride PET protocol. A reward responsiveness learning task was initiated at 100 min after injection. PET data were analyzed using the linearized simplified reference region model, which accounts for time-dependent changes in (18)F-fallypride displacement. Voxel-based statistical maps, reflecting task-induced D(2/3) ligand displacement, and volume-of-interest-based analysis were performed to localize areas with increased ligand displacement after task initiation, thought to be proportional to changes in endogenous dopamine release (γ parameter). Simulated time-activity curves for baseline and hypothetical dopamine release functions (different peak heights of dopamine and task timings) were generated using the enhanced receptor-binding kinetic model to investigate γ as a function of these parameters.The reward task induced increased ligand displacement in extrastriatal regions of the reward circuit, including the medial orbitofrontal cortex, ventromedial prefrontal cortex, and dorsal anterior cingulate cortex. For task timing of 100 min, ligand displacement was found for the striatum only when peak height of dopamine was greater than 240 nM, whereas for frontal regions, γ was always positive for all task timings and peak heights of dopamine. Simulation results for a peak height of dopamine of 200 nM showed that an effect of striatal ligand displacement could be detected only when task timing was greater than 120 min.The prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices are involved in reward responsiveness that can be measured using (18)F-fallypride PET in a single scanning session. To measure both striatal and extrastriatal dopamine release, the height of dopamine released and task timing need to be considered in designing activation studies depending on regional D(2/3) density.