Tactile exploration of shape after subcortical ischaemic infarction studied with PET. We studied the cerebral activations related to restitution of hand function in five patients with first hemiplegic subcortical stroke due to ischaemic infarction in the area of the basal ganglia or thalamus. In two subjects, involvement of the cortico-spinal tract was demonstrated by magnetic evoked potentials. The subjects were requested to discriminate rectangular parallelepipeda of identical mass with their affected hands. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured with PET after intravenous bolus injection of [15O]butanol, at rest and during task execution. Evaluation of the rCBF changes was based on pixel-by-pixel t statistics of spatially standardized and averaged PET images and on a statistical distribution analysis of regions of interest in the individual subjects. For anatomical localization of the significant rCBF changes, a computerized brain atlas (Greitz et al. J Comput Assist Tomogr 1991 15: 26-38) and a matching procedure that directly aligns individual PET and high resolution magnetic resonance images were used. The rCBF at rest and the task-induced rCBF changes varied from subject to subject, as did the residual neurological deficits at the time of PET scanning. In all subjects there were large activation areas in the motor and the sensory hand area contralateral to the affected hand. Poor performance of the task was correlated with a low rCBF in the contralateral sensorimotor cortex at rest and a bilateral activation of the primary sensorimotor cortex during task performance. The premotor cortex, ipsilateral and anterior cerebellum, contralateral to the affected hand, were also significantly activated. Further activations were observed in the contralateral premotor cortex, supplementary motor area and bilaterally in the posterior cingulate cortex, but were less consistent among the subjects. Our data suggest that recovery from hemiplegic stroke is associated with a marked reorganization of the cerebral activation patterns, including common and subject-specific activation sites. With respect to task-specific information processing a lower discrimination rate of objects compared with controls was associated with diminished activations in parietal lobe.