Myocardial viability studies using fluorine-18-FDG SPECT: a comparison with fluorine-18-FDG PET. Multidetector SPECT systems equipped with a high-energy, or 511-keV collimator, have been proposed to offer a less expensive alternative to PET in myocardial viability studies with [18F]FDG. The objectives of this investigation included: (a) measuring the physical imaging characteristics of SPECT systems equipped with either a high-energy general-purpose collimator (HE), or the dedicated 511-keV collimator (UH), when imaging 511-keV photons, and comparing them with conventional FDG PET and (b) directly and quantitatively comparing the diagnostic accuracy of SPECT, with either an UH or HE collimator, to that of PET in myocardial viability studies using 18F-FDG.Physical imaging characteristics of SPECT and PET were measured and compared. Both SPECT and PET studies were performed in two groups of 18 patients each, with Group I using HE SPECT and Group II using UH SPECT. Myocardial perfusion studies were also performed using 82Rb PET at rest and during dipyridamole stress to identify areas of persistent hypoperfusion. For each myocardial region with a persistent perfusion defect, a perfusion-metabolism match or mismatch pattern was established independently, based on the results of 18F-FDG SPECT as well as PET.PET is superior to SPECT in all physical imaging characteristics, particularly in sensitivity and contrast resolution. PET had a sensitivity 40-80 times higher than that of SPECT, and its contrast resolution was 40-100% better than SPECT. Between FDG-SPECT using an HE collimator and that using a 511-keV collimator, the latter showed marked reduction in septal penetration (from 56% to 38%), improvement in spatial resolution (from 17 mm to 11 mm FWHM) as well as contrast resolution (from 34% to 45%), while suffering reduced system sensitivity (from 75 to 34 cpm/microCi). Patient studies demonstrated that although FDG-SPECT, using a HE or UH collimator, provided concordant viability information as FDG PET in a large majority of myocardial segments with persistent perfusion defects (88% and 90%, respectively), there is an excellent statistical agreement (kappa = 0.736) between SPECT with UH collimator and PET, while the agreement between SPECT using HE collimator and PET are moderate (kappa = 0.413).Despite its markedly inferior physical imaging characteristics compared with PET, SPECT with the dedicated 511-keV collimator offers a low-cost, practical alternative to PET in studying myocardial viability using [18F]FDG. SPECT systems with a high-energy, general-purpose collimator, on the other hand, are inadequate in such studies.