Failure of diagnosing pancreatic tumors in the course of laparoscopic cholecystectomy: surgical lessons. In Hungary surgeons perform approximately 24000 cholecystectomies per year. Nowadays the choice of treatment of uncomplicated cholelithiasis is laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The advantages and popularity of the procedure are well known otherwise the exploration of the abdominal cavity is not so complete than during open surgery. In the course of laparoscopic surgery the surgeon has minimal chance to find the preoperatively not diagnosed tumour.In our retrospective study we analysed those complains and clinical signs, when we suspect the presence of a pancreas tumour.We analysed the clinical data of patients who were operated on with pancreatic tumor and before the surgery, laparoscopic cholecystectomy had been performed in the previous 24 month.In the period of 1996-2003 we operated 1515 patients with pancreatic tumor, at our clinic. 21 patients (1.39%) had laparoscopic cholecystectomy in the last 24 month, before the surgery. The age of the patients was between 50-78 (average age 65), the rate of the female and male patients was 15/6. Most of the patients had weight loss (in 11 cases it was considerable, 5.4 kg in one month) and the uncertain abdominal pain, feeling of discomfort, meteorism was also characteristic of these patients. In 16 cases (76%) the blood glucose level had been elevated. The ultrasound examination before the cholecystectomy in these cases was focused to the gall bladder. After the cholecystectomy, complains did not disappear definitely and further diagnostic steps verified the pancreatic tumour. The average time between the laparoscopic cholecystectomy and the open surgery was 10 month. In 4 cases we were able to remove the tumor, but in 17 cases only palliative operation was performed.If the patient is over the age of 50, especially if he is male, has weight loss and if the symptoms are not characteristic of gallbladder disease, further diagnostic steps are necessary before cholecystectomy. Complains remaining after laparoscopic cholecystectomy must be indication for urgent diagnostic steps. The life expectancy of patients with advanced pancreatic tumor is very poor.