Results of regional chemotherapy using the aortic stop-flow technique in advanced pancreatic carcinoma. Systemic palliative chemotherapy provides only a disappointing response and almost no prolongation of the survival time in patients with pancreatic carcinoma. Isolated perfusion may lead to a higher concentration of cytostatics within the target tissue, which can be associated with a high response rate and longer survival in addition to a low rate of side effects. The aim of the study was to investigate the feasibility of the aortic stop-flow technique using commercially available tools in patients with advanced pancreatic carcinoma.Seventeen patients with either unresectable or metastasized pancreatic carcinoma (diagnosed by histologic investigation) were enrolled in the study. In total, a 20-min hypoxic perfusion of the isolated abdominal compartment with 20 mg/m2 of mitomycin C (Medac, Hamburg, Germany) was carried out 22 times. The cytostatic concentration was determined intrainterventionally within the systemic and regional compartment. The tumor response was assessed using computed tomography and a tumor marker (CA19-9) every 4 weeks.While 12 patients underwent one cycle, in 5 patients two complete perfusions were performed. Mitomycin C concentration was 10-fold higher within the regional compared with the systemic compartment at its maximum. The area under the curve (AUC) was 4.02 times larger. The degree of toxicity was considerable: World Health Organization grade I/II in 8/17, III/IV in 9/17 cases. Three treatment-related deaths were documented. The objective response rate was 17.6% (3 of 17 cases 1 complete remission [CR], 2 partial remissions [PR]). In 3 subjects, a stable disease (SD) and in 11 individuals tumor progression (PD) was registered. The median survival was 4.1 months.The aortic stop-flow technique was associated with a high toxicity rate but no improvement in the tumor response and survival was seen in comparison to the systemic chemotherapy of the historical group. Despite detectable pharmacokinetic advantages, the aortic stop-flow technique is therefore not considered to be feasible for palliative chemotherapy in patients with pancreatic carcinoma for routine use.