Initial resection of potentially viable tissue is not optimal treatment for grades II-IV pancreatic injuries. This study was designed to ascertain the optimal therapy and diagnostics for children with pancreatic injury.From January 1, 2001 to January 1, 2007, all children (newborn to 17 years) who presented to this Level I trauma center with demonstrated pancreatic injury were prospectively entered into the TRACS IV system and reviewed for injury type, diagnostics, therapy, demographics, and outcome.Fourteen children sustained grade II or higher pancreatic injury during this period. CT scan was performed for diagnosis in all cases. There were 11 boys and 3 girls, and mean age was 6.9 (range, 2-16) years. There were five grade II injuries, four grade III injuries, four grade IV injuries, and one grade V injury. All grade II injuries were treated successfully nonoperatively with observation. The nine grade III-IV injuries all underwent operative external drainage without pancreatectomy or stent placement. The single grade V injury died of multiple associated injuries after operative intervention. No pseudocysts developed in these children. All children have normal pancreatic function, and all except one have normal anatomy on follow-up scans. Early exploration and drainage directly reduces length of stay.Grade II pancreatic injuries do not require routine surgical exploration in children. Grade III and IV injuries in this series were treated with expeditious drainage of the pancreatic bed and did not require routine pancreatectomy or endoscopic stent [corrected] placement as some have recommended. Early drainage shortens hospital stay, and outcomes from this therapy are excellent. Pancreatic resection of exocrine defunctionalized segments of pancreas may be performed safely electively after acute injury if necessary, but anecdotal information from this series indicates that too may not be necessary. Grade V injuries often are accompanied by multiple other organ injuries and are associated with a significant mortality rate. A multi-institutional investigation is warranted to reassess optimal therapy for pancreatic injury in children.