Comparison of MRI manifestations and histopathologic findings in pancreatic head carcinoma in vivo ex vivo. To prospectively analyze the correlation of MRI image characteristics with histopathological findings in pancreatic head carcinoma in vivo and ex vivo.Sixteen patients with pancreatic head carcinoma were examined by 1.5T MRI. MR sequences included pre-and post-contrast dynamic 2D FLASH T1WI, TSE T2WI + fat suppressed (FS). All fresh specimens were scanned again within an hour after resection during the Whipple procedure, and were then cut into slices along the direction of MRI scan. The MRI image characteristics were compared with gross and histopathologic findings of the specimens.The tumor size ranged from 1.5 cm x 2.0 cm to 4.8 cm x 4.2 cm with a mean value of 3.6 cm x 3.1 cm. The MRI findings in vivo showed hypointensity in 14 lesions and isointensity in 2, and on 2D FLASH T1WI and TSE T2WI, all lesions displayed mixed intensity except 3 lesions with iso-intensity. During post-contrast dynamic pancreatic parenchymal phase, 15 lesions showed mild enhancement and 11 lesions had ring enhancement sign. Nine lesions displayed progressive irregular moderate enhancement during post-contrast dynamic hepatic phase. Four lesions showed enhancement with iso- and hyperintensity in post-contrast dynamic delayed phase. The MRI findings demonstrated that all lesions ex vivo had hypointensity on 2D FLASH T1 WI and mixed intensity on TSE T2WI + FS. Tumor tissues mainly displayed hypointensity, and the area containing tumor and inflammatory tissue showed iso-intensity on 2D FLASH T1WI. On T2WI + FS, the fibrosis proportion displayed hypo or isointensity, while the tumor and chronic inflammatory tissue demonstrated slight hyperintensity, and the zones of mucous degeneration or pancreatic ductal dilatation displayed hyper-intensity. The ring enhancement of tumor was caused by multiple factors and no obvious enhancement within tumor and fibrosis area were observed during post-contrast dynamic pancreatic parenchymal phase. Progressive irregular enhancement originated from desmoplastic reaction within the tumor during post-contrast dynamic hepatic phase and delayed phase, respectively.Pancreatic head carcinomas contain various kinds of tissues. MRI can reveal these pathologic characteristics. No obvious hemorrhage and necrosis within the tumor were observed in this series.