The clinical manifestations of three cases with melioidosis. To investigate the clinical features of 3 cases of Burkholderia pseudomallei septicemia in Guangxi Province, and therefore to improve its diagnosis and treatment.The clinical features, treatment and prognosis of 3 cases of acute septicemic melioidosis admitted to this hospital from October 2006 to December 2008 were retrospectively analyzed.The 3 male patients were local farmers, with an average age of (42 ± 2) years. Two of them had a history of frequent trauma and contact with polluted water, and another had a history of exposure to the dust and soil. All patients had an acute onset, manifested as septicemia with chills, high-grade fever, anemia and weight loss. At the same time, the disease was often complicated with multiple organ abscesses. The pus was characterized by smelling like mud. One case was manifestated with lung abscess, with right calf skin pyogenic infection, and the another case was with liver, spleen, pancreas and mediastinal abscess, and the third presented with right facial and ankle soft tissue abscess. The leukocyte counts [(11.6 ± 0.5) × 10(9)/L] and neutrophils [(8.3 ± 0.4) × 10(9)/L] in 2 patients were slightly increased, but decreased in the other patient. There were significant increase of erythrocyte sedimentation rate (63.5 ± 2.7) mm/1 h and c-reactive protein (155 ± 4) mg/L, and liver dysfunction and elevated blood glucose occurred in 3 patients. Chest radiology and CT showed a number of patchy infiltrates, consolidation, and nodules with varying sizes in the upper lung lobes. Abscess in other organs mainly occurred in liver, spleen, and skin. The final diagnosis was confirmed as infection with Burkholderia pseudomallei by repeated blood or pus culture. The isolated Burkholderia pseudomallei was sensitive to carbapenem, and β-lactam + β-lactamase inhibitors. One patient was treated effectively with Imipenem, and other 2 patients with β-lactam + β-lactamase inhibitors. After 3 - 4 days of treatment with antibiotics, the body temperature of these patients gradually decreased, and the intravenous drug was used as long as 4 to 8 weeks, and a total course of antibiotic therapy would continue for 4 to 6 months.Human melioidosis exists in the south and southwest of Guangxi. Repeated blood or pus culture can confirm the diagnosis. A relatively long course of antibiotic treatment with β-lactam/β-lactamase inhibitors or carbapenem is recommended.