Identification of early complications following pancreas and renal transplantation using contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS)--first results. Identification of acute and subacute complications following pancreas and renal transplantation using contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) in comparison with Magnetic Resonance Tomography (MRI), Computed Tomography (CT), Digital Subtraction Angiography (DSA) or Ultrasound (US). The study evaluated whether CEUS could confirm the preliminary diagnosis or even provide additional information, relevant for the therapeutic strategy.Retrospective evaluation of 19 patients (13 male, 6 female, age 26-77 years, mean 53.2 years) following renal transplantation and 10 patients (4 male, 6 female, age 35-56 years, mean 45.7 years) following combined pancreas and renal transplantation. CEUS was used as an additional diagnostic method when obscure diagnostic findings occurred in US, CT, MRI or DSA. Fundamental B-scan, Color Coded Doppler Sonography (CCDS) and CEUS were performed in all patients by an experienced examiner using a multifrequency convex transducer (1-5 MHz). After a bolus injection of up to 2.4 ml SonoVue® [BRACCO, Italy] digital raw data was stored as cine-loops up to 5 minutes in length.In all patients, the pathological features and suspected diagnostic findings identified in the other imaging modalities could be confirmed using CEUS (100%). In 25 out of 29 patients (86.2%), new clinically relevant findings were detected. In 27 patients, the diagnosis of CEUS was confirmed during surgery (7), DSA (5), follow-up CEUS (13), CT (1) and MRI (1). In 4 patients renal AV-fistulas were found following biopsy, 3 patients showed post-operative allograft arterial stenosis or dissection, 1 patient demonstrated a stenosis of the common iliac artery and 2 patients were diagnosed with post-operative allograft venous thrombosis or stenosis. In 2 patients, a definite diagnosis of a benign lesion following renal transplantation was possible. In 1 patient a malignant lesion was suspected and confirmed following surgery. In 6 patients, normal perfusion of the pancreas and renal parenchyma and the corresponding vessels was diagnosed, in 5 patients the parenchymal perfusion was diminished and 1 patient suffered from pancreatitis.These first results show that CEUS can provide additional, clinically relevant informations in patients with acute and subacute complications following pancreas and renal transplantation. Thus, an early application within the diagnostic course seems favorable.