A case of splenic rupture within an umbilical hernia with loss of domain. Massive ventral hernia with loss of abdominal domain is a particularly complex disease. We present a case of a massive umbilical hernia with loss of abdominal domain containing the small bowel, colon, and spleen that presented with spontaneous splenic rupture.The patient was an 82-year-old Caucasian female with multiple comorbidities, on anti-coagulation for cardiac dysrhythmia with a congenital umbilical hernia with loss of abdominal domain which had progressed over multiple years. She presented to an outside hospital with history of a left-sided abdominal pain accompanying fatigue and weakness.A CT scan of the abdomen revealed an umbilical hernia with loss of abdominal domain containing the patient's entire small bowel, colon, pancreas, and the spleen. The spleen had ruptured with associated hemorrhage and hematoma in the hernia sac.Management included a multidisciplinary approach with particular attention to comorbidities and hemodynamic monitoring due to splenic rupture. Given the need for lifetime anticoagulation, a splenectomy was planned along with simultaneous abdominal wall reconstruction. The patient underwent an exploratory laparotomy, splenectomy, bilateral posterior component separation with transversus abdominis release, and a retrorectus/preperitoneal placement of heavy weight polypropylene mesh.During the postoperative period, the patient remained intubated initially due to elevated airway pressures before transferring to the regular nursing floor. The remainder of the patient's hospital stay was complicated by a postoperative ileus requiring nasogastric tube decompression and a DVT and PE necessitating anticoagulation. The ileus eventually resolved and diet was slowly advanced. The patient was discharged on POD17.To our knowledge, this is the first report in the literature describing a splenic rupture that occurred within the hernia sac of a congenital umbilical hernia. This report serves to highlight that even with novel cases of massive and atypical hernias, posterior component separation with transversus abdominis release is a reproducible repair that can be performed with good result in a variety of circumstances.