Efficacy and safety of ten day moxifloxacin 400 mg once daily in the treatment of patients with community-acquired pneumonia. Community Acquired Pneumonia Study Group. Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) remains a common and serious illness with approximately 2-4 million cases reported annually. Management of CAP is therapeutically challenging due to the increasing prevalence of penicillin- and macrolide-resistant pneumococci and beta-lactamase producing Haemophilus influenzae, as well as the increased recognition of 'atypical' pathogens, such as Chlamydia pneumoniae and Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and the frequent need for empiric therapy. We aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of moxifloxacin in the treatment of patients with CAP. To do this we carried out a prospective, uncontrolled, non-blind, Phase III clinical trial, in 27 U.S. centers. Patients included in the study were over 18 years of age with signs and symptoms of CAP confirmed by evidence of a new or progressive infiltrate on chest radiograph. The intervention used was moxifloxacin 400 mg PO once daily for 10 days. Sputum samples were collected pretherapy for Gram stain and culture for typical organisms. Culture and serological testing for Chlamydia pneumoniae and Mycoplasma pneumoniae was also performed. Susceptibility to moxifloxacin was determined by disk diffusion and MIC. Clinical and bacteriological responses were determined at the end of therapy (0-6 days post-therapy), follow-up (14-35 days post-therapy) and overall (end of therapy plus follow-up). Analyses were performed on both valid for efficacy and intent-to-treat populations. The primary efficacy variable was overall clinical resolution. Of 254 patients enrolled in the Study, 196 patients were included in the efficacy analyses. The majority of patients were male (58%) and Caucasian (85%) with a mean age of 49 years (range: 18 to 85 years). Only 3% of patients were hospitalized pretherapy. The most common pretherapy organisms identified, by culture or serology, in the valid for efficacy population (i.e. 147 organisms among 116 patients), were: Chlamydia pneumoniae (n=63 54%), Mycoplasma pneumoniae (n=29