Ability of caregivers to recognise signs of pneumonia in coughing children aged below five years. This survey was carried out to determine: 1. The ability of caregivers to recognise signs of pneumonia in children aged below five years who are coughing. 2. The proportion of caregivers who possess a watch and are able to use that watch to count respiratory rates in children. 3. The home remedies used for cough.A cross sectional study.Three Primary Health Care Clinics and a tertiary level hospital in Harare.413 children aged less than five years attending a health care centre for cough were studied. Socio-demographic and personal characteristics of both mother and child were documented. An inventory of home remedies that were being used since onset of cough was taken. The child was also examined for signs of pneumonia by both caregiver and research nurse. The sensitivity and specificity of the caregiver's ability to recognise signs of pneumonia compared to the research nurse was calculated.The ability of caregivers to recognise signs of pneumonia was high (sensitivity 95pc for hospitalized cases and 85pc for the clinic cases). Sensitivity tended to drop with increase in child's age. The caregiver's ability to recognise signs of pneumonia was not significantly related to the number of children she had or her level of education. Only 19.5pc of caregivers owned a watch and could use a watch to count respiratory rates correctly. Those who owned a watch were more likely to count respiratory rates correctly. Those who claimed ability to use a watch actually counted respiratory rates correctly. Sixty six pc had used some remedy to treat the cough at home.Caregivers were able to recognise signs of pneumonia without a watch. Only a small proportion of caregivers own watches and are able to use them correctly to count respiratory rates. National ARI control programmes should emphasize caregivers observing breathing when a child has a cough and encourage seeking early and appropriate health care when pneumonia is detected. Watches or timers should be made available and be recommended for use by trained health workers in health centres only. Use of potentially harmful remedies should be discouraged.