Seasonal pattern of morbidities in preschool slum children in Lucknow, north India. To quantify the burden of common morbidities for each month in one year, in preschool children.Anganwadi centers under the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme (ICDS) in Lucknow, North India.Prospective cohort study,From 153 anganwadi centers in urban Lucknow, 32 were selected by random draw. All eligible children registered with the anganwadi worker were enrolled over a period of six months from July 1995 to January 1996. All the subjects were then contacted a second time six months later.There were 1061 children (48.3% girls and 51.7% boys) between the ages of 1.5 to 3.5 years.The annual incidence rate (IR) per 100 child-years for respiratory, diarrhea and skin diseases and pneumonia were 167, 79.9, 30.6 and 9.6, respectively. When compared to other seasons, the IR of pneumonia was lowest in the winter months (October to February) while those of diarrhea and skin diseases were the highest in summer (March-June) and monsoon (July to September) months, respectively. Season specific diseases were measles in summer, and fever as the isolated symptom in monsoon. The IR for combined morbidities was the highest in the monsoon as compared to winter months.Season specific intensification of existing health care resources for these morbidities can be considered. Similar studies are needed from other parts of the country.Findings are reported from a study conducted to quantify the burden of common morbidities in each month in 1 year among preschool children at 32 randomly chosen anganwadi centers in urban Lucknow, India.  Overall, there are 153 anganwadi centers in the city.  All eligible children registered with the anganwadi worker were enrolled over a period of 6 months from July 1995 to January 1996, and then contacted again 6 months later.  Findings are based upon the study of 549 boys and 512 girls aged 1.5-3.5 years.  The annual incidence rate (IR) per 100 child-years for respiratory, diarrhea, and skin diseases, and pneumonia were 167, 79.9, 30.6, and 9.6, respectively.  When compared to other seasons, the IR of pneumonia was lowest during October-February, the winter months, while those of diarrhea and skin diseases were the highest during March-June and July-September, respectively.  Season-specific diseases were measles in summer, and fever as the isolated symptom in monsoon season.  The IR for combined morbidities was the highest during the monsoon season.  These findings warrant the consideration of season-specific intensification of existing health care resources for such morbidity.