Determination of the attenuation map in emission tomography. Reliable attenuation correction methods for quantitative emission CT (ECT) require accurate delineation of the body contour and often necessitate knowledge of internal anatomic structure. Two broad classes of methods have been used to calculate the attenuation map: transmission-less and transmission-based attenuation correction techniques. Whereas calculated attenuation correction belonging to the first class of methods is appropriate for brain studies, more adequate methods must be performed in clinical applications, where the attenuation coefficient distribution is not known a priori, and for areas of inhomogeneous attenuation such as the chest. Measured attenuation correction overcomes this problem and uses different approaches to determine this map, including transmission scanning, segmented magnetic resonance images, or appropriately scaled CT scans acquired either independently on separate or simultaneously on multimodality imaging systems. Combination of data acquired from different imagers suffers from the usual problems of working with multimodality images--namely, accurate co-registration from the different modalities and assignment of attenuation coefficients. A current trend in ECT is to use transmission scanning to reconstruct the attenuation map. Combined ECT/CT imaging is an interesting approach however, it considerably complicates both the scanner design and the data acquisition and processing protocols. Moreover, the cost of such systems may be prohibitive for small nuclear medicine departments. A dramatic simplification could be made if the attenuation map could be obtained directly from the emission projections, without the use of a transmission scan. This is being investigated either using a statistical model of emission data or applying the consistency conditions that allow one to identify the operator of the problem and, thus, to reconstruct the attenuation map. This article presents the physical and methodologic basis of attenuation correction and summarizes recent developments in algorithms used to compute the attenuation map in ECT. Other potential applications are also discussed.