Imaging and treatment of patients with colorectal liver metastases in the Netherlands: a survey. Clinical experience has highlighted the absence of a uniform approach to the management of patients with colorectal liver metastases in the Netherlands.A written survey on the diagnosis and treatment of patients with colorectal liver metastases was sent to all 107 chairmen of oncology committees in each hospital. Questions were asked concerning: specialists involved in decision-making, availability and existence of guidelines and meetings, factors that needed to be improved, information regarding the diagnostic work-up of liver metastases, detailed techniques of ultrasonography (US), computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET), factors influencing resectability, types of surgery performed, the use of (neo)adjuvant chemotherapy, portal vein embolisation performance, considering isolated hepatic perfusion (IHP) or local ablation as treatment options, actual performance of local ablation and the use of systemic as well as regional chemotherapy.Response rate was 68% (73/107). Specialists involved in the management were mostly surgeons (70), medical oncologists (66) and radiologists (42). Factors that needed to be improved, as indicated by responders, were the absence of 1) guidelines 2) registration of patients and 3) guidelines for radiofrequency ablation (RFA). Diagnostic work-up of synchronous liver metastases occurred in 71 hospitals, (by US in 69 and by CT in 2). For the work-up of metachronous liver metastases, US was used as initial modality in 14, CT in 2 hospitals, and 57 hospitals used one or the other (mainly US). As additional modality, CT was performed (71) and to a lesser extent MRI (38) or PET (22). Diagnostic laparoscopy and biopsy were performed incidentally. The choice for an imaging modality was mostly influenced by the literature, and to a lesser extent by the availability and by costs, personnel and waiting lists. Substantial variation exists in the US, CT, MRI and PET techniques. The absence of extrahepatic disease and the clinical condition were considered as the most important factors influencing resectability. Surgery was performed in 30 hospitalsThis survey shows substantial variation in the diagnostic and therapeutic work-up of patients with colorectal liver metastases. This variation reflects either under- or over-utilisation of diagnosis and treatment options. Evidence-based guidelines taking into account the available evidence, experience and availability can solve this variation.