In vitro and in vivo comparison of DTPA- and DOTA-conjugated antiferritin monoclonal antibody for imaging and therapy of pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic cancer has a very poor prognosis with a less than 5% survival rate at 5 years. Neither external beam radiation nor chemotherapy, alone or in combination, have given encouraging results so far. A possible solution might come from the use of targeted therapy such as radioimmunotherapy. We present here the results obtained from the preclinical development of a new monoclonal antiferritin antibody (Ab), AMB8LK. Ferritin is overexpressed in pancreatic cancer and could thus be used as a target for the delivery of radioactivity at the tumour sites. The AMB8LK Ab was conjugated to three chelating agents: the 2-(4-isothiocyanatobenzyl)-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (PSCN-Bz-DTPA), the (R)-2-amino-3-(4-isothiocyanatophenyl)propyl]-trans-(S,S)-cyclohexane-1,2-diamine-pentaacetic acid (p5CN-Bz-CHX-A"-DTPA) and the 2-(4-isothiocyanatobenzyl)-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-1,4,7,10-tetraacetic acid (pSCN-Bz-DOTA). Radiolabelling of the three immunoconjugates with indium 111 and yttrium 90 as well as in vitro stability and immunoreactivity against pure ferritin and cells expressing ferritin were analysed. In vivo biodistribution studies were conducted on normal and on human pancreatic adenocarcinoma CAPAN-1 tumour bearing mice. These experiments demonstrated good radiolabelling (>95%), stability and immunoreactivity of the three compounds. In the biodistribution studies, differences between the three immunoconjugates were apparent in the rate of blood clearance and in tumour, liver and bone uptake. A very good pancreatic adenocarcinoma tumour targeting was observed especially with the Bz-DTPA-AMB8LK: 20% of the injected dose of the indium-labelled compound 3 days after injection 15% of the injected dose 5 days after that of the yttrium-labelled Ab. Altogether, these results in animal models suggest that (90)Y-Bz-DTPA-AMB8LK is a good candidate for further therapeutic efficacy studies.