Growing applications of "click chemistry" for bioconjugation in contemporary biomedical research. This update summarizes the growing application of "click" chemistry in diverse areas such as bioconjugation, drug discovery, materials science, and radiochemistry. This update also discusses click chemistry reactions that proceed rapidly with high selectivity, specificity, and yield. Two important characteristics make click chemistry so attractive for assembling compounds, reagents, and biomolecules for preclinical and clinical applications. First, click reactions are bio-orthogonal neither the reactants nor their product's functional groups interact with functionalized biomolecules. Second, the reactions proceed with ease under mild nontoxic conditions, such as at room temperature and, usually, in water. The copper-catalyzed Huisgen cycloaddition, azide-alkyne [3 + 2] dipolar cycloaddition, Staudinger ligation, and azide-phosphine ligation each possess these unique qualities. These reactions can be used to modify one cellular component while leaving others unharmed or untouched. Click chemistry has found increasing applications in all aspects of drug discovery in medicinal chemistry, such as for generating lead compounds through combinatorial methods. Bioconjugation via click chemistry is rigorously employed in proteomics and nucleic research. In radiochemistry, selective radiolabeling of biomolecules in cells and living organisms for imaging and therapy has been realized by this technology. Bifunctional chelating agents for several radionuclides useful for positron emission tomography and single-photon emission computed tomography imaging have also been prepared by using click chemistry. This review concludes that click chemistry is not the perfect conjugation and assembly technology for all applications, but provides a powerful, attractive alternative to conventional chemistry. This chemistry has proven itself to be superior in satisfying many criteria (e.g., biocompatibility, selectivity, yield, stereospecificity, and so forth)