Cloning analysis of ferritin and the cisplatin-subunit for cancer cell apoptosis in Aplysia juliana hepatopancreas. Ferritin, an iron storage protein, plays a key role in iron metabolism in vivo. Here, we have cloned an inducible ferritin cDNA with 519 bp within the open reading frame fragment from the hepatopancreas of Aplysia juliana (AJ). The subunit sequence of the ferritin was predicted to be a polypeptide of 172 amino acids with a molecular mass of 19.8291kDa and an isoelectric point of 5.01. The cDNA sequence of hepatopancreas ferritin in AJ was constructed into a pET-32a system for expressing its relative protein efficiently in E. coli strain BL21, under isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactoside induction. The recombinant ferritin, which was further purified on a Ni-NTA resin column and digested with enterokinase, was detected as a single subunit of approximately 20 kDa mass using both SDS-PAGE and mass spectrometry. The secondary structure and phosphorylation sites of the deduced amino acids were predicted using both ExPASy proteomic tools and the NetPhos 2.0 server, and the subunit space structure of the recombinant AJ ferritin (rAjFer) was built using a molecular operating environment software system. The result of in-gel digestion and identification using MALDI-TOF MS/MS showed that the recombinant protein was AjFer. ICP-MS results indicated that the rAjFer subunit could directly bind to cisplatin[cis-Diaminedichloroplatinum(CDDP)], giving approximately 17.6 CDDP/ferritin subunits and forming a novel CDDP-subunit. This suggests that a nanometer CDDP core-ferritin was constructed, which could be developed as a new anti-cancer drug. The flow cytometry results indicated that CDDP-rAjFer could induce Hela cell apoptosis. Results of the real-time PCR and Western blotting showed that the expression of AjFer mRNA was up-regulated in AJ under Cd(2+) stress. The recombinant AjFer protein should prove to be useful for further study of the structure and function of ferritin in Aplysia.