Studies on cerebral oxygen metabolism, blood flow, and blood volume, in patients with hydrocephalus before and after surgical decompression, using positron emission tomography. Cortical oxygen utilization, oxygen extraction, blood flow, and blood volume, have been measured in patients with hydrocephalus before and after surgical decompression using positron emission tomography (PET). The hydrocephalus subjects fell into two categories: patients with recent-onset obstructive hydrocephalus and symptoms of raised intracranial pressure due to obstruction of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) drainage by posterior fossa or third ventricular cerebral tumours, and patients with hydrocephalus of more insidious onset that was associated either with congenital abnormalities, or which was idiopathic. The hydrocephalus subjects had a significantly reduced level of mean cortical oxygen utilization (rCMRO2) and mean cortical blood flow (rCBF) compared with age-matched normal controls. Patients with recent-onset obstructive hydrocephalus associated with cerebral neoplasia had inappropriately low levels of cortical blood flow compared with their levels of cortical oxygen utilization, all having elevated levels of cortical oxygen extraction (rOER). Levels of cortical blood flow in the group of patients with more insidious-onset hydrocephalus matched levels of cortical rCMRO2, all these subjects having normal levels of rOER. All those hydrocephalus subjects who had a raised cortical oxygen extraction preoperatively increased their cortical blood flow following cerebral decompression. No improvement, however, was noted in their mean cortical oxygen utilization. By contrast, those hydrocephalus subjects with normal baseline levels of cortical extraction showed no improvement in mean cortical blood flow, oxygen utilization, or cognitive function after surgical intervention. It is concluded that if cortical oxygen extraction is elevated, hydrocephalic patients are likely to improve their cortical blood flow following cerebral decompression.