Dose-effect relations for local functional and structural changes of the lung after irradiation for malignant lymphoma. To estimate the dose-effect relations for local functional (ventilation and perfusion) and structural (density) changes of the lung, 3-4 months after irradiation.Twenty-five patients with malignant lymphoma were irradiated with a (modified) mantle field to an average dose of 38 Gy, given in 21 fractions. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) ventilation (V) and perfusion (Q) scans, and CT scans were performed before and 3-4 months after radiation treatment. The three-dimensional dose distribution was calculated using the CT data. After correlation of SPECT and CT data sets, the average post-treatment value of V, Q and lung density per voxel was calculated relative to the pre-treatment value, per dose interval of 4 Gy. Subsequently, the dose-effect relations in each patient were normalized to the average value per voxel in the dose interval of 0-12 Gy. In addition, in each dose interval of 4 Gy the fraction of patients with changes larger than 20% was calculated for all three parameters. The dose-effect relations for perfusion and ventilation normalized to the low-dose regions, and the dose-incidence curves for the fraction of patients with changes larger than 20% were fitted for all three parameters, using a logistic model.Marked changes in the distribution of V and Q were found after irradiation. Prior to normalization to the low-dose regions, a change in V and Q was found in most patients in the dose interval of 0-12 Gy, varying from an increase of 37% to a decrease of 10%, which was followed by a decreasing trend at higher doses. The increase in the low-dose regions indicated a redistribution phenomenon, the magnitude of which was dependent of the irradiated volume. The logistic fit of the dose-effect relations for Q and V, normalized to the low-dose regions, resulted in values for D50 of 51 Gy and 54 Gy (given in 21 fractions on average), respectively, and for the steepness parameter k of 4.2 and 4.0, respectively. The logistic fit for the dose-incidence curves for Q, V and lung density resulted in values for D50 and k of 38 Gy, 37 Gy, 44 Gy and 10.3, 7.8 and 9.4, respectively.With the combined use of SPECT and CT scans, we have obtained dose-effect relations for local functional and structural damage in the lung, 3-4 months after irradiation.