Extravesical ureteroneocystostomy with and without internalized ureteric stents in pediatric renal transplantation. The use of ureteric double-J stents and the Lich-Gregoir (extravesical) technique of ureteroneocystotomy have both been shown to decrease the rate of urologic complications in adult kidney transplantation (Tx). There are, however, few studies of the systematic use of stents in pediatric renal Tx. Between 1991 and 1997, 32 consecutive pediatric renal transplant recipients routinely received a 6F-12 cm indwelling double-J stent and were studied prospectively. These patients were compared with 32 consecutive pediatric recipients in whom a stent was not used. The latter were transplanted between 1987 and 1991 and formed the control group. All patients had a Lich-Gregoir ureteroneocystotomy. Stents were removed under general-anesthetic cystoscopy 2 3 weeks after Tx. Immunosuppression for stented patients was polyclonal antibody induction, delayed (7-10 days) cyclosporin A, azathioprine, and prednisone. The control group received the same triple drug regimen but with no induction in 29 of the 32 patients. All patients were followed-up with at least one ultrasound evaluation in the first month, and a renal scan and repeat ultrasound were performed if there was any rise in serum creatinine. In the stented group there were two patients with urinary leak and no obstructions. In the non-stented group there were no leaks and one obstruction. There was no graft loss owing to urologic complications in either group. There were three cases of stent expulsion (all in girls) and one case of stent migration in the posterior urethra (a boy). The 1-yr graft survival rate was 90.6% in the stented group and 65.6% in the non-stented group. The prophylactic use of an indwelling ureteral stent in pediatric renal Tx did not reduce the risk of urinary leakage or obstruction. Stent migration is a common phenomenon and, while not a serious complication, is traumatic to children. Furthermore, removal of an internalized double-J stent requires a general anesthetic. We recommend using a stent for selected patients only.