Serum alpha-glutathione S-transferase as a sensitive marker of hepatocellular damage in patients with cystic fibrosis. The aim of the study was to evaluate serum a-glutathione S-transferase (s-GSTA) levels in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and to compare s-GSTA with other liver function tests and with a hepatic ultrasound scan (US). The cytosolic enzyme, alpha-glutathione S-transferase is predominantly found in the liver and is distributed uniformly in the liver tissue. In our study s-GSTA levels were measured in 37 CF patients aged 1 to 28 years (mean age 10.4 years, 24 males). The control group consisted of 27 patients aged 2 to 17 years (mean age 8.5 years, 18 males). The presence of hepatobiliary abnormalities was assessed by clinical examination, ultrasound scan, s-GSTA, and conventional liver enzymes: alanine aminotransferase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and gama-glutamyl transferase (GMT). The calculated 5-95 % range of s-GSTA for the control group was 0.098-2.54 microg/l, for the CF group 0.43-9.76 microg/l. Mean s-GSTA level in the control group was 1.55 microg/l (S.D.=1.57), and 2.05 micro/l (S.D.=2.60) in the CF group. In the group of CF patients, the serum levels were significantly higher than in the control group (P<0.01). No significant correlation existed in the CF group between s-GSTA and conventional liver tests (ALT, AST, ALP and GMT). Four patients in the CF group had hepatobiliary abnormalities detectable by conventional liver tests, s-GSTA and US. Four patients had abnormal s-GSTA, while conventional liver tests and US were normal. One other patient had abnormal hepatic US, but normal standard liver tests and s-GSTA. The study has suggested that a raised s-GSTA level might be a marker of possible pathological changes of the hepatobiliar system in CF patients. Serum GSTA seems to be a more sensitive marker than transaminases for the monitoring of hepatocellular integrity and as an early predictor of hepatic damage.