Grading and staging of hepatic fibrosis, and its relationship with noninvasive diagnostic parameters. To explore the grade and stage of pathology and the relationship between grading and staging of hepatic fibrosis and noninvasive diagnostic parameters.Inflammatory activity and fibrosis of consecutive liver biopsies from 200 patients with chronic liver disease were determined according to the Diagnostic Criteria of Chronic Hepatitis in China, 1995. A comparative analysis was made in these patients comparing serum markers, Doppler ultrasonography, CT and/or MR imaging with the findings of liver biopsy.With increase of inflammatory activity, the degree of fibrosis also rose. There was a close correlation between liver fibrosis and inflammatory activity. AST, GGT, albumin, albumin/globulin, ALP, AFP, hyaluronic acid, N-terminal procollagen III(P III NP), collagen type IV(Col IV), tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1), alpha-2-macroglobulin, natural killer cells(NK), some parameters of Doppler ultrasonography, CT and/or MR imaging were all related to the degree of inflammatory activity. GGT, albumin, albumin/globulin, ALP, AFP, hyaluronic acid, Col IV, TIMP-1, alpha-2- macroglobulin, transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGFbeta1), NK, some parameters of Doppler ultrasonography, CT and/or MR imaging were all related to the staging of fibrosis. By regression analysis, the parameters used in combination to differentiate the presence or absence of fibrosis were age, GGT, the parameter of blood flow of portal vein per minute, the maximum oblique diameter of right liver by B ultrasound, the wavy hepatic surface contour by CT and/or MR. The sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of the above parameters were 80.36%, 86.67%, and 81.10%, respectively.There is close correlation between liver fibrosis and inflammatory activity. The grading and staging of liver fibrosis are related to serum markers, Doppler ultrasonography, CT and/or MR imaging. The combination of the above mentioned noninvasive parameters are quite sensitive and specific in the diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis.