Urine interleukin-8 as a marker of vesicoureteral reflux in infants. Vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) is a common finding in children presenting with urinary tract infection (UTI) and prenatally diagnosed urinary tract dilatation and in relatives of index patients. Children with VUR are at risk for ongoing renal damage with subsequent infections. Detecting VUR and renal scarring currently depends on imaging modalities with associated problems of radiation, invasiveness, and expense. Noninvasive methods would greatly facilitate diagnosis and would also help in identifying relatives of index cases who should be screened. Interleukin-8 (IL-8) is produced by epithelial cells of the renal tract in response to inflammatory stimuli and has been shown to increase during acute UTI. The objective of this study was to assess the urine levels of IL-8 as a noninvasive marker of VUR in infants in the absence of a recent UTI episode.We evaluated urine concentrations of IL-8 in 59 infants aged 1 month to 2 years. All infants were free of UTI for a minimum of 3 weeks before IL-8 evaluation. Infants were divided into 3 groups: group A, subjects with proven VUR (24 infants aged 0.15-1.95 years, median 0.43) group B, subjects with a history of UTI but negative investigation for VUR (14 infants aged 0.32-1.95 years, median 0.57)Results were presented as medians and ranges. The Kruskal-Wallis test, the Mann-Whitney rank sum U test, and the Spearman rank order correlation test were performed for the univariate analysis. Two-tailed P values were calculated and the conventional level of significance P < .05 was applied in all cases. Infants in groups A and B had been free of UTI for a period of 3 to 52 weeks (median, 5.0 weeks) and 3 to 78 weeks (median, 4.5 weeks), respectively, before IL-8 determination. No significant difference was noted in the length of the UTI-free period between groups A and B (P = .469). Urine creatinine concentrations did not differ among groups A, B, and C (medians 1.15, 2.25, and 1.15 micromol/mL, respectively P = .080). The median urine IL-8/creatinine concentrations (pg/micromol) were 40.5 (range, 2.04-3874) in group A, 1.91 (range, 0.001-386) in group B, and 2.47 (range, 0.002-55.6) in group C. Urine IL-8/creatinine concentrations were significantly higher in group A than both in group B (P = .0003) and in group C (P < .0001). No significant difference was observed between groups B and C (P = .749). In group A, no significant correlation was shown between IL-8/creatinine concentrations and the presence of renal parenchymal damage (P = .506), reflux grade (P = .770), or time from UTI (P = .155). A receiver-operator characteristic curve was constructed by plotting the sensitivity versus the specificity for different cutoff concentrations of IL-8/creatinine. With a cutoff concentration of urinary IL-8/creatinine at 5 pg/micromol, the sensitivity of this marker in diagnosing VUR was 88%, the specificity 69%, the positive prognostic value 66%, and the negative prognostic value 89%. In higher cutoff concentrations, specificity of the marker increased but sensitivity rapidly decreased.We present evidence that urine IL-8 concentrations remain elevated in infants with VUR even in the absence of UTI and that a cutoff of 5 pg/micromol IL-8/creatinine is of high sensitivity and adequate specificity for diagnosing VUR. Elevated urine IL-8 levels in VUR and renal scarring have already been reported however, the present study is, to our knowledge, the first to confirm significant differences between infants with VUR and infants with a history of UTI alone and healthy controls, and to suggest a reliable cutoff concentration for diagnosing VUR. Our findings additionally suggest that inflammatory process in VUR is ongoing even after UTI has resolved, pointing against the currently held belief that sterile reflux cannot harm kidneys. The chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate associated with reflux nephropathy rather than VUR itself might offer an explanation for the secretion of IL-8, which may well be independent of reflux grade. Using urine IL-8 for diagnosing VUR is not free of limitations, because IL-8 may be elevated as a result of urinary tract manipulation or undetected UTI. In addition, this study focused on infants and not in older children with longstanding VUR. Increased urine IL-8 concentrations after UTI has resolved is a promising noninvasive marker for an initial screening for VUR in infancy with high sensitivity and adequate specificity.