Febrile urinary tract infections in children with an early negative voiding cystourethrogram after treatment of vesicoureteral reflux with dextranomer/hyaluronic acid. Children in whom nonsurgical management for vesicoureteral reflux fails are considered candidates for surgical intervention. An option is endoscopic treatment with Deflux(R). We reviewed our experience with febrile urinary tract infections in children following initial successful treatment of vesicoureteral reflux with Deflux and identified factors predictive of post-Deflux urinary tract infections. We also analyzed the incidence of delayed vesicoureteral reflux recurrence in these patients.We performed a retrospective chart review of all children from 2002 to 2006 diagnosed with grades I to IV vesicoureteral reflux who were treated with Deflux and who had a negative initial followup voiding cystourethrogram at 2 to 5 months. Patients were categorized into post-Deflux infection and infection-free groups. Predictive factors, including the number of preoperative febrile urinary tract infections, dysfunctional elimination and renal cortical defects on dimercapto-succinic acid scan, were analyzed and compared.Of the patients 45 met all study inclusion and exclusion criteria. A total of 12 patients (27%) who were diagnosed with a culture documented febrile urinary tract infection were categorized into the infection group. Of 12 children in the post-Deflux infection group 11 (92%) had multiple predictors compared to 14 of 33 (42%) who remained infection-free (p = 0.005). Ten of these 12 patients (92%) were found to have evidence of vesicoureteral reflux when evaluated with voiding cystourethrogram/radionuclide cystogram after infection.This study demonstrates that up to 27% of patients treated endoscopically may have a febrile urinary tract infection after an initial negative postoperative voiding cystourethrogram/radionuclide cystogram at 2 to 5 months and up to 92% of those will demonstrate delayed vesicoureteral reflux recurrence. Children with a history of 2 or more predictive factors, including multiple febrile urinary tract infections, dysfunctional elimination and/or renal cortical defects on dimercapto-succinic acid scan, may not be optimal candidates for Deflux. If endoscopic treatment is chosen, these patients require more vigilant followup, including late voiding cystourethrogram.