Renal pyelectasis in fetuses and neonates: diagnostic value of renal pelvis diameter in pre- and postnatal sonographic screening. Pre- and postnatal pyelectasis detected by sonographic screening is of questionable pathologic importance. Therefore, we defined the natural course and diagnostic value of renal pelvis diameter (RPD) during fetal life and the neonatal period as such dilatation was revealed on routine sonography.Routine sonography in pregnant women was obtained between gestational weeks 22 and 30. Sonograms were obtained for 1021 fetuses, of which 15 could not be followed up as neonates. The remaining 1006 fetuses also underwent neonatal sonography. All neonates with an RPD larger than 5 mm were followed up sonographically. Neonates with an RPD larger than 9 mm or persistent widening (> 5-9 mm) were examined by voiding cystourethrogram, radionuclide renogram, or both.Thirty fetuses (3%) had an RPD larger than 5 mm. Nine of these fetuses also had an RPD larger than 5 mm as neonates. Of these nine neonates, one had bilateral grade II vesicoureteric reflux (VUR) and two had urinary tract obstructions (one posterior urethral valve and one ureteropelvic junction obstruction). Forty-nine neonates whose results on fetal sonograms had been normal showed an RPD larger than 5 mm on neonatal sonograms. Grade III VUR was found in one boy, and ureteropelvic junction obstruction was found in two boys. The kidneys of 54 neonates who showed an RPD larger than 5 mm without urinary tract obstruction were followed up until an RPD of 0-5 mm was evident. RPD normalized within 1 year of birth, whether VUR was present or not. Symptomatic urinary tract infection was diagnosed in 17 infants who had no renal pelvis dilatation seen on pre-or postnatal screening during the observation period. Seven of the 17 neonates had VUR. Conversely, none of the infants with pre- postnatal dilatation presented with symptomatic urinary tract infection. However, in one neonate an asymptomatic urinary tract infection without VUR was diagnosed by routine urinalysis.In our study, we linked renal pelvis dilatation on pre- and postnatal sonograms to obstructive uropathies rather than to vesicoureteric reflux. Prenatal sonography proved less sensitive than postnatal sonography in revealing obstructive uropathies. An RPD smaller than 10 mm on neonatal sonography was of no pathologic significance because renal collecting systems normalized spontaneously in all infants within 1 year of birth. These neonates and infants had no significant risk for urinary tract infection and did not need further evaluation.