Quantitative and bioluminescent assay to measure efficacy of conventional and DNA vaccinations against Helicobacter pylori. Vaccination against Helicobacter pylori using DNA sequences encoding Urease A and B subunits was compared to immunization with urease antigen and MTP-PE in a liposome formulation. To determine the effectiveness of a vaccine against H. pylori in a mouse model it is essential to quantify the number of H. pylori remaining in the stomachs following challenge with an inoculum of live bacteria. Culture assays and enzymatic assays produce inconsistent results often unsuitable to conclude if vaccine candidates are protective. To overcome this problem, we developed two assays: 1) a competitive quantitative PCR using a colorimetric readout and 2) a non-competitive direct quantitative PCR using a highly sensitive bioluminescent readout. The competitive PCR requires coamplification of a segment of the urease C sequence and an internal control standard in a competitive manner using a single set of primers. PCR products were quantified colorimetrically by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and compared with known quantities of the internal control standard added to the PCR reaction. The highly sensitive, bioluminescent assay measures the amplified DNA directly using a flash-type luminescent tag and a specific probe. The Sydney strain of H. pylori was used for the mouse infection model. Quantification of H. pylori by either the bioluminescent assay or the competitive PCR was reliable, specific and sensitive compared to quantitative growth assays which often gave false results. The bioluminescent assay was much more sensitive and less labor/time intensive than the competitive PCR. The bioluminescent assay was able to quantitate as few as 100 bacteria, while the competitive assay could not detect less than 10(3) bacteria per mouse stomach. Quantification of H. pylori by bioluminescent assay was superior to the competitive assay and may be used for research applications, such as the development of vaccines, pathogenesis of gastric disease and monitoring of antibiotic treatment.