Current perspectives The diagnosis of acute pulmonary embolism. A review of the literature and current clinical practice. The optimal approach to the diagnosis of acute pulmonary embolism is still controversial. The poor sensitivity and specificity of most of the clinical manifestations, the suboptimal accuracy of the majority of the laboratory and instrumental examinations and the highly variable local availability of the diagnostic resources, makes it in fact difficult for a univocal strategy to be adopted. Recently published practical guidelines, however, support the use of lung scanning (either ventilation/perfusion or only perfusion) as a first-line imaging test, since this approach allows for a correct diagnosis in most patients, after careful history taking, physical examination and electrocardiogram, chest X-ray and arterial blood gas analysis performance. When lung scanning is non-diagnostic, either serial non-invasive (i.e. ultrasonographic) evaluation of the lower limbs or pulmonary angiography should follow. Growing evidence is accumulating on the use of spiral computed tomography scanning either as an alternative or as a complement to lung scanning, while echocardiography should be reserved for the bedside evaluation of critically ill patients, when more validated techniques are not readily available. The role of plasma D-dimer measurement has yet to be defined, especially in hospitalized patients. In current clinical practice, however, these recommendations seem to be only partially followed. Depending in fact on the different characteristics of the populations examined in the seven available studies reporting on this issue, the use of the different diagnostic techniques appears highly variable. Although a standard diagnostic pathway does not seem applicable to all patients with suspected acute pulmonary embolism, further work is nonetheless needed in order to identify in different patient subsets the diagnostic approach capable of minimizing the use of diagnostic resources while obtaining the greatest amount of information.