Comparison of clinical assessments with computerized tomography pulmonary angiography results in the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism. Pulmonary embolism (PE) is difficult to diagnose. We investigated the relationship between computed tomography pulmonary angiography (CTPA) with clinical assessments and thrombus localization. 56 patients with the suspicion of PE 27 male, 29 female were included. They were evaluated by empirical and Wells clinical assessments, tested with D-Dimer. According to the combination of both CTPA was performed where necessary (if one of the clinical assessments was high or intermediate or those with low clinical probability and high D-Dimer) in the algorithm we used. CTPA was regarded as gold standard. Dyspnea, chest pain, tachypnea, crackles were the most common symptoms and signs in patients having PE. Recent surgery within the risk factors was significantly higher in the PE present group. PE was diagnosed in 31 (55.4%) patients with CTPA. According to the empirical assessment 20 (64.5%) of the patients had high, 10 (32.3%) had intermediate and 1 (3.2%) had low clinical probability within 31 PE present group, while with Wells scoring 8 (25.8%) had high, 17 (54.8%) had intermediate and 6 (19.4%) had low clinical probability. Sensitivity of the empirical assessment and Wells scoring was 97%, 80% while the specificity was 16%, 68% respectively. Positive and negative predictive values of empirical assessment were 59%, 80% and these values of Wells scoring were 76%, 73% respectively. Thrombus was localized in main pulmonary arteries in 45.8% of patients with high clinical probability according to the empirical assessment. With Wells scoring in 45.5% of the high probability patients and only in 4.3% of the low probability patients thrombus was there. PE can be diagnosed noninvasively. Since PE can easily be underdiagnosed, empirical assessment which is more sensitive will be appropriate. There is a significant correlation between clinical assessments and presence of PE in CTPA. As the severity of clinical assessment increases, thrombus settles more proximal.