Solid malignancies complicated with pulmonary embolism: clinical analysis of 120 patients. Pulmonary embolism, a potentially fatal event, occurs more frequently in cancer patients than in the general population. To offer an accurate diagnosis and effective treatment to such patients in China, we analyzed the incidence rate and clinical features of pulmonary embolism in patients with solid tumor hospitalized in the Peking Union Medical College (PUMC) Hospital.A retrospective analysis was made of the hospitalized patients with solid malignancies complicated with pulmonary embolism who had been admitted into the PUMC Hospital from January 2002 to December 2008.The incidence of pulmonary embolism in hospitalized patients with solid malignancies was 0.27% (120/43 967). The median age at diagnosis was 57.5 years. The male to female ratio was 1.0:1.4 (49:71). Patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) constituted the largest proportion of the 120 patients (37.5%), followed by patients with breast (9.2%), ovarian (8.3%), pancreatic (6.7%), and liver cancer (6.7%). Eighty patients (66.7%) had stage IV cancer. Bone was the most common site of distant metastasis (46.3%). D-dimer level was elevated in 90.9% of the 66 tested patients. The incidence of bleeding due to anti-coagulation therapy was 3.6%. Thirty-six (30.0%) of the 120 patients had concurrent deep venous thrombosis in the lower extremities. Seventeen patients developed acute pulmonary embolism within 2 weeks after surgery, 3 of whom died suddenly. Four patients presented with deep venous thrombosis and 1 with pulmonary embolism prior to the identification of malignancy.Patients with cancer of the lung, ovarian, breast, pancreas, and liver are more likely to be complicated with pulmonary embolism than those with other types of solid tumors. Patients with distant metastasis are at a higher risk of pulmonary embolism. Pulmonary embolism without concurrent deep venous thrombosis is more frequently observed than concurrence of both disorders in the clinical setting.