Heterogeneity in the occurrence of a subset of autoantibodies to glutamic acid decarboxylase in autoimmune polyendocrine patients with islet cell antibodies. Glutamic acid decarboxylase-65 (GAD-65) is a major target for autoantibodies and autoreactive T cells in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM). Autoantibodies to GAD are also found in patients with stiff man syndrome (SMS) or polyendocrine autoimmunity (PE). The epitope specificities of autoantibodies to GAD in IDDM and SMS have been well documented, but the locations of autoantibody epitopes of GAD in PE patients have not been mapped. Thus, the properties of anti-GAD antibodies in PE patients (with or without diabetes) were investigated. The ability of PE serum antibodies to inhibit the binding of the mouse monoclonal antibody, GAD-6, to native GAD in ELISA was determined. For PE patients without diabetes, levels of inhibition of GAD-6 binding ranged from 0% to almost 70% and were unrelated to the level of binding of serum antibodies to GAD (P = 0.351) or to the functional affinities of these antibodies. This suggests differences in the epitope specificities of anti-GAD antibodies in different patients. Levels of inhibition were also unrelated to clinical condition. SMS antibodies showed similar levels of inhibition of GAD-6 binding. Similar analysis was applied to PE patients with diabetes and levels of inhibition of GAD-6 binding to GAD were determined. These ranged from 0% to 80%, and levels of inhibition were similar in samples taken before or after diabetes onset. There was no significant difference between anti-GAD antibodies from PE patients with or without diabetes in the range of abilities to inhibit GAD-6 binding to GAD, although the highest levels of inhibition were given by sera from non-diabetic patients. This raises the possibility of differential expression of subsets of anti-GAD antibodies in progressive versus slow or non-progressive anti-islet autoimmune responses. Serum antibodies of PE and SMS patients did not inhibit the binding of antibodies specific for the extreme C-terminus of GAD, indicating that this is not the site of the epitopes for the patients' antibodies or for GAD-6.