Dorsal root ganglia morphologic features in patients with herniation of the nucleus pulposus: assessment using magnetic resonance myelography and clinical correlation. Morphologic features of the dorsal root ganglia were investigated in patients with herniation of the nucleus pulposus by means of magnetic resonance myelography.This study was undertaken to assess morphologic changes of the dorsal root ganglia in patients with herniation of the nucleus pulposus and to determine the relations between the morphologic features of the dorsal root ganglia and clinical features.It has recently been reported that application of the nucleus pulposus to a nerve root induces edema in the rat dorsal root ganglion. Edema in the human dorsal root ganglion resulting from lumbar disc herniation has not been discussed in the literature, to the authors' knowledge.Eighty-three consecutive patients (average age 42.1 years range 17 to 77 years) with monoradicular symptoms were examined. Dorsal root ganglion morphologic features, i.e., indentations and swelling, were evaluated by magnetic resonance myelography. The dorsal root ganglion swelling at each level was quantitatively expressed as a ratio of the dorsal root ganglion width on the involved side to that of the contralateral side and was termed dorsal root ganglion ratio. Eighty-three uninvolved levels were chosen as controls in a randomized manner. Factors possibly contributing to the morphologic changes in the dorsal root ganglion were investigated. Neurologic symptoms, evaluated by the Japan Orthopaedic Association scoring system, were correlated to the morphologic changes. The morphologic features were followed up for 1 year after treatment in a small group of patients.Dorsal root ganglion indentations were always found in the narrowed intervertebral foramens. The incidence of indentations was significantly higher at the involved nerve roots (10.8%) than at the uninvolved nerve roots (4.0%) (P = 0.026). Patients with dorsal root ganglion indentations were significantly older (P = 0.0008). Leg pain scores in patients with indentations were significantly poor (P = 0.007). The dorsal root ganglion ratios were significantly higher at the involved levels than at the uninvolved levels (P = 0.001) the means +/- SD were 1.19 +/- 0.25 and 1.08 +/- 0.13, respectively. Patients with lateral herniated nucleus pulposus had significantly higher dorsal root ganglion ratios than those with central herniated nucleus pulposus (P = 0.0001)Swelling and impingement in the involved dorsal root ganglion were clearly visualized by magnetic resonance myelography. The swelling and indentations were well correlated with severity of leg pain. These findings have important value in understanding the pathophysiology of the nerve roots in herniated nucleus pulposus.