Comparison of three-dimensional gradient echo, turbo spin echo and steady-state gradient echo sequences in axial MRI examination of the cervical spine. The aim of this study was to assess the detectability of the structures that are affected by cervical spondylosis by different 3D MRI sequences and compare the image quality of those sequences.Twenty healthy volunteers were examined using a 1.5 T MR unit. T2* weighted 3D-gradient echo sequence with magnetization transfer saturation pulse (3D-FFE-MTC), T2 weighted 3D turbo spin echo (TSE) sequence with and without spectral presaturation inversion recovery pulse (T2-3D-TSE/SPIR+ and T2-3D-TSE/SPIR-) and balanced-FFE (b-FFE) sequences were compared. Spinal cord signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) SNR, and CSF-spinal cord contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) were calculated quantitatively. The detectability of neural foramina, spinal nerve roots, uncinate process and ligamentum flava were graded on a 5-point scale (0: minimum, 4: maximum) qualitatively. The presence of the artifacts and overall image quality were graded on a 4-point scale (0: minimum, 3: maximum).Balanced-FFE sequence yielded the best results for each of three quantitative evaluation. In terms of qualitative evaluation, for the uncinate process T2-3D-TSE/SPIR- sequence was superior to the other three sequences (p < 0.01). For the ligamentum flava T2-3D-TSE/SPIR- and b-FFE sequences were superior to the other two (p < 0.01). For the neural foramina b-FFE yielded the lowest score (3), however the other three sequences were not significantly different (3.2-3.5) (p > 0.05). Artifacts were most commonly seen using 3D-FFE-MTC. In terms of overall image quality T2-3D-TSE/SPIR- yielded the highest score, followed by b-FFE.3D-FFE-MTC sequence is frequently preferred for cervical spinal MRI studies. However our study yielded best scores for T2-3D-TSE/SPIR, followed by b-FFE in the quantitative and qualitative evaluation of the structures affected by cervical spondylosis.