Short-term CT findings after osteosynthesis of fractures of the vertebral spine. Evaluation of a correlation between surgical stabilization of fractures of the vertebral spine and postoperative short-term CT findings with special attention to degenerative changes.The pre- and post-operative CT of 55 patients (43male, 12 female, age: 7 - 73 years, mean = 37.7 years) with traumatic fractures of the vertebral spine who underwent surgical stabilization using an internal fixator were analyzed retrospectively. The interval between surgical intervention and first postoperative CT control did not exceed one week. The interval to the second short-term follow-up CT ranged from 6 up to 24 months (mean: 10.3 +/- 2.7 months). The consensus reading of the short-term CT by two experienced radiologists was compared to the pre- and immediately postoperative CT examinations and with the neurologic findings. Statistical analysis was done using the chi-square- or the Fisher's exact-test.No statistically significant correlation (p > 0.05) was found between the patient's age and the postoperative incidence of osteoporosis, spondylarthrosis, scoliosis, spondylolisthesis or disc protrusion after posttraumatic surgical stabilization using an internal fixator. Also, there was no significant correlation between the fracture's type or location, presence of polytraumatization, the technique of surgical intervention, and the incidence of postoperative degenerative changes in the neighboring segments. The thesis has not been verified (p > 0.05) that polysegment stabilization or prior surgical interventions at the vertebral spine with scar induction are responsible for a higher rate of degeneration. The only risk factor observed for postoperative scoliosis was the burst rotation fracture type C1.3 (AO-classification).No short-term acceleration of degenerative changes after surgical intervention in vertebral spine fractures was observed. However, due to the short-term interval between surgical intervention and follow-up CT (mean: 10.3 +/- 2.7 months), a final conclusion cannot yet be drawn. A follow-up CT seems to be indicated in patients with increasing complaints during this period. Thus, low grade complications can be diagnosed early.