Circumferential cervical spine surgery in an 18-month-old female with traumatic disruption of the odontoid and C3 vertebrae. Case report and review of techniques. Case report and review of techniques. A case study of an 18-month-old female with craniovertebral instability and spinal cord compression requiring circumferential stabilization. A review of surgical techniques in upper cervical spine and craniovertebral stabilization for young children is provided.To describe an interesting surgical approach in a young pediatric patient requiring circumferential stability at the craniovertebral junction.Craniovertebral instability is problematic in the young pediatric population due to the inability to secure hardware for stabilization. We present an interesting case of spinal cord compression with craniovertebral instability in an 18-month-old female requiring circumferential cervical spine and craniovertebral stabilization.The patient presented with acute onset quadriparesis after a fall. Radiographs demonstrated C2-C3 disruption with canal compromise. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed signal changes of the spinal cord at C2-C3. Neurological examination revealed normal muscle volume with strength 1/5 in the upper extremities and 0/5 in the lower extremities. Respirations were normal with normal diaphragmatic function. Cranial nerves were intact.Halo-traction attempted at 0.453 kg induced occipital-atlantal dislocation. The patient underwent anterior corpectomy of C3 and the base of C2 with autologous rib grafts placed from C2 to C4 and macropore as an anterior plating system. Posteriorly the patient had occiput-C3 fusion with a titanium rod and autologous rib grafts bilaterally. Postoperatively the patient regained normal neurological function with circumferential fusion after 4 months in a halo vest.This case demonstrates the ability to achieve circumferential stabilization in the young pediatric patient. Injuries at the odontoid synchondrosis can be difficult to treat and are only complicated by having to achieve a posterior fusion at the craniovertebral junction. We present a successful case of circumferential fusion and offer a surgical technique to achieve spinal cord decompression and fusion of the upper cervical spine and craniovertebral junction in the young pediatric population.