Challenge of percutaneous nephrolithotomy in patients with spinal neuropathy. To assess the technical difficulties, associated complications and stone clearance rates in patients with spinal neuropathy undergoing percutaneous nephrolithotomy.Twenty-nine patients with spinal neuropathy underwent percutaneous nephrolithotomy in the two centers studied between October 1995 and January 2002. They were nine patients with traumatic spinal cord injury, 10 patients with spina bifida and 10 with other heterogeneous causes for their spinal neuropathy. The group included 12 men and 17 women, with an average age of 44 years (14-80). Patients' medical records were reviewed retrospectively for data relating to their renal lithiasis.A total of 39 percutaneous nephrolithotomy procedures were undertaken on 32 kidneys. Thirteen procedures were for staghorn calculi. Preoperatively, eight kidneys required nephrostomy and 5 J stent decompression. The average American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) score was 3, and one patient had percutaneous nephrolithotomy performed under local anaesthetic as the risk of general anaesthetic was felt to be too high. The associated morbidity and mortality in this group is significant. There were two postoperative deaths. Major complications were associated with three procedures, and consisted of seizures, aspiration pneumonia and pressure necrosis. Nine patients experienced minor complications including fever, hypotension and nephrostomy site leakage. Nine patients required intensive therapy unit care postoperatively and the average hospital stay for the group was 13.32 days. Only 18 (62%) patients were rendered stone-free from their initial percutaneous nephrolithotomy. Seven patients required a further procedure for stone clearance: four underwent extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy, two ureteroscopy and one nephrectomy.Patients with spinal neuropathy and renal lithiasis pose a significant operative challenge. Technical difficulties and potential complications should be considered carefully before undertaking percutaneous nephrolithotomy in these patients.