Basilar impression and osteogenesis imperfecta: a 21-year retrospective review of outcomes in 20 patients. Basilar impression (BI) secondary to osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a rare but debilitating condition that is often progressive unless it is halted. More recently, ventral decompression surgery has been advocated for this condition. This study is a retrospective review of the 21-year experience of ventral decompression surgery and dorsal occipitocervical fixation in patients with BI secondary to OI and is the largest patient series reported to date.Twenty patients treated between 1982 and 2003 by the senior author at the authors' institution were included in this study. All patients underwent ventral decompression surgery followed by dorsal craniocervical stabilization. Patients were followed up for a median of 10 years.There were no intraoperative or perioperative deaths. Postoperatively, 16 of 20 (80%) patients showed objective improvement or maintained their good preoperative level of function. After surgery, of the 15 patients admitted with Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS) scores of 70% or less, 11 improved, two remained unchanged, one patient's condition deteriorated, and one patient died of an unrelated cause. Of five patients admitted with a KPS score of 80% or greater, no patient's condition deteriorated in the short- and midterm period, but one patient had recurrence 15 years after surgery. At the end of follow-up, 25% of the patients had recurrence of brainstem compression symptoms or had died, and 15% showed no improvement after surgery. All of the remaining patients (60%) had sustained a long-term benefit from surgery.Aggressive ventral decompression surgery and dorsal stabilization for patients with BI secondary to OI can not only halt disease progression but can also produce a good and sustainable long-term functional outcome, even in those patients who present as severely symptomatic. Patients who presented early with minor symptoms had good long-term outcomes.