Adult spinal cord injury with no radiographic bone lesion: analysis of nine consecutive patients. Spinal cord injury with no radiographic bone lesion described as spinal cord injury without radiographic abnormality (SCIWORA) in childhood is less often reported in adults than in children. This study was undertaken to report our experience in the management of nine cases over 25 years.This was a retrospective study from 1985 to 2009 concerning nine adult patients who sustained spinal cord injury with no radiographic abnormality. The ratio among all cervical spine traumas for the same period was 2.21%. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed in all the patients. The patients' clinical status at the time of admission and discharge was evaluated using the Frankel's grading system. We report the results based on the clinical, epidemiologic and radiological findings and outcomes.The mean age of our population was 37.43 years, ranging from 18 to 60 years. All the patients were men. The main etiology was falls (5/9) followed by road traffic accidents (4/9). According to the Frankel's grading system, four patients (44.45%) were grade A, four were grade B (44.45%), and one was grade C (11.11%). On MRI, medullar lesions were: contusion, non-compressive cervical disc herniation, cervical spine stenosis, and two cases of normal cervical spine. Four patients were operated on via the posterior cervical spine approach (laminectomy, C3-C7 in three cases and C1-C3 in one case). The other five patients were treated orthopaedically for 6 to 8 weeks. Three patients (3/9), who were Frankel's grade B and C with no demonstrable injury on MRI, improved to Frankel a useful neurological grade (Frankel's grades D or E) at the time of discharge. One patient evaluated as Frankel's grade A died from cardiovascular disturbance.Spinal cord injury with no radiographic abnormality accounted for 2.21% of cases of spinal cord injury in our series. MRI is the investigation of choice, having diagnostic and prognostic value because it demonstrates neural and extraneural injuries and helps to identify surgically correctable abnormalities.