<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2020-04-02</DATELINE><TITLE>Assurer les soins aux patients souffrant de troubles psychiques en France pendant l’épidémie à SARS-CoV-2</TITLE><BODY>Résumé Objectif: L’absence de préparation du système de soins psychiatriques à l’épidémie de virus SARS-CoV-2 fait redouter fait redouter un scénario pessimiste pour la santé physique et mentale des patients suivis en psychiatrie. L’objectif de cet article est de proposer des éléments de guidance pour réorganiser les soins psychiatriques dans le contexte de pandémie COVID-19. Méthode: Les auteurs ont réalisé une synthèse de la littérature internationale combinée au partage des expériences locales françaises. Résultats: Les patients souffrant de troubles psychiques semblent particulièrement vulnérables à ce virus et à la pandémie : vulnérabilités liées aux comorbidités médicales, à l’âge, aux troubles cognitifs qui peuvent entraver le respect des consignes de confinement, et aux complications psychosociales. Plusieurs initiatives ont été prises pour assurer la continuité des soins et contenir l’épidémie : création en psychiatrie d’unité COVID+ co-supervisée par des médecins généralistes ou internistes, restriction des consultations aux cas sévères et redéploiement des soins en téléconsultation, accompagnement de type case-management pour les sorties précoces ou l’impossibilité d’hospitaliser, accompagnements spécifiques pour les complications psychiques du confinement. Les populations suivies en pédopsychiatrie, en psychiatrie du sujet âgé, en addictologie ou détenues en prison doivent bénéficier d’une attention particulière. Plusieurs questions restent en suspend : la question de l’interaction négative ou positive des traitements sur l’infection SARS-CoV-2, l’épidémiologie de l’infection chez les personnes souffrant de troubles psychiques, leur adaptation à un confinement long. Discussion: Une prise de conscience par les décideurs politiques de la grande vulnérabilité de ces populations et des institutions psychiatriques dans cette situation de catastrophe sanitaire est urgente. Abstract Objective: The lack of ressources and coordination to face the epidemic of coronavirus raises concerns for the health of patients with mental disorders in a country where we keep in memory the dramatic experience of famine in psychiatric hospitals during the Second World War. This article aims at proposing guidance to ensure mental health care during the SARS-CoV epidemy in France. Methods: authors performed a narrative review identifying relevant results in the scientific and medical literature and local initiatives in France. Results: We identified four types of major vulnerabilities in patients suffering from mental disorders during this pandemic: 1) medical comorbidities that are more frequently found in patients suffering from mental disorders (cardiovascular and pulmonary pathologies, diabetes, obesity, etc.) which represent risk factors for severe infections with covid-19; 2) age (the elderly constituting the population most vulnerable to coronavirus); 3) cognitive and behavioral troubles which can hamper compliance with confinement and hygiene measures and finally and 4) psychosocial vulnerability due to stigmatization and/or socio-economic difficulties. Furthermore, the mental health healthcare system is more vulnerable than other healthcare systems. Current government plans are poorly adapted to psychiatric establishments in a context of major shortage of organizational, material and human resources. In addition, a certain number of structural aspects make the psychiatric institution particularly vulnerable: many beds are closed, wards have a high density of patients, mental health community facilities are closed, medical teams are understaffed and poorly trained to face infectious diseases. We could also face major issues in referring patients with acute mental disorders to intensive care units. To maintain continuity of psychiatric care in this pandemic situation, several directions can be considered, in particular with the creation of COVID + units. These units are under the dual supervision of a psychiatrist and of an internist / infectious disease specialist; all new entrants should be placed in quarantine for 14 days; the nurse staff should benefit from specific training, from daily medical check-ups and from close psychological support. Family visits would be prohibited and replaced by videoconference. At the end of hospitalization, in particular for the population of patients in compulsory ambulatory care situations, specific case-management should be organized with the possibility of home visits, in order to support them when they get back home and to help them to cope with the experience of confinement, which is at risk to induce recurrences of mental disorders. The total or partial closure of mental health community facilities is particularly disturbing for patients but a regular follow-up is possible with telemedicine and should include the monitoring of the suicide risk and psychoeducation strategies; developing support platforms could also be very helpful in this context. Private psychiatrists have also a crucial role of information with their patients on confinement and barrier measures, but also on measures to prevent the psychological risks inherent to confinement: maintenance of sleep regularity, physical exercise, social interactions, stress management and coping strategies, prevention of addictions, etc. They should also be trained to prevent, detect and treat early warning symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder, because their prevalence was high in the regions of China most affected by the pandemic. Discussion: French mental healthcare is now in a great and urgent need for reorganization and must also prepare in the coming days and weeks to face an epidemic of emotional disorders due to the containment of the general population.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>