Assessment of perfusion, function, and myocardial metabolism after infarction with a combination of low-dose dobutamine tetrofosmin gated SPECT perfusion scintigraphy and BMIPP SPECT imaging. Tetrofosmin gated single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) allows simultaneous assessment of regional myocardial perfusion, global and regional left ventricular function, and function at rest and during pharmacologic intervention. SPECT with fatty acid analogues, such as beta-methyl-iodophenyl-pentadecanoic acid (BMIPP), can be used to monitor metabolic changes induced by myocardial ischemia. In this work, the results of both studies obtained in patients with recent myocardial infarction are integrated.Twenty patients underwent tetrofosmin and BMIPP scintigraphy with a 3-head camera. Two consecutive tetrofosmin gated SPECT acquisitions were performed 60 minutes after administration of technetium-99m tetrofosmin (925 MBq) at rest (3x20 stops of 9 s matrix 64x64 over 360 degrees . One acquisition was made at rest, and the second was made during dobutamine infusion (10 microg/kg/min). Regional functional abnormalities were quantified and expressed as wall thickening severity (WTsev) in arbitrary units. Left ventricular ejection fraction and volumes were assessed with the Cedars Sinai algorithm. BMIPP imaging started 20 minutes after iodine 123-BMIPP (150 MBq) administration at rest (3x32 stops of 60 sSixteen of 18 patients had regional functional abnormalities at baseline (average WTsev 13.7 units). The WTsev score at baseline correlated well with the degree of residual perfusion. During dobutamine infusion, WTsev did not change (from 23.4 to 23.6 units) in 5 patients it decreased (from 16.1 to 5.9 units) in 11 patientsImmediately after infarction, the severity of regional dysfunction at rest correlated well with the perfusion defect severity. Improvement in regional function during dobutamine administration is associated with less severe perfusion defects and a considerable amount of BMIPP mismatched myocardium, both suggesting viability.