cDNA cloning of an alginate lyase from abalone, Haliotis discus hannai. An alginate lyase, termed HdAly in the present paper, was isolated from the hepatopancreas of abalone, Haliotis discus hannai, by ammonium sulfate fractionation, followed by TOYOPEARL CM-650M column chromatography. Enzymatic properties of HdAly were similar to those of previously reported Haliotis and Turbo poly(M) lyases, e.g., it preferentially degraded a poly(beta-D-mannuronate)-rich substrate with an optimal pH and temperature at pH 8.0 and 45 degrees C, respectively. In order to determine the primary structure of abalone lyase that is still poorly understood, cDNAs for HdAly were cloned by PCR from the abalone hepatopancreas cDNA library and sequenced. From the nucleotide sequences of the cDNAs, the sequence of 909 bp in total was determined, and the amino acid sequence of 273 residues was deduced from the translational region of 822 bp locating at nucleotide positions 27-848. The N-terminal region of 16 residues, except for the initiation Met in the deduced sequence, was regarded as the signal peptide since it was absent in the HdAly protein and showed high similarity to the consensus sequence for signal peptides of eukaryote secretary proteins. This suggests that HdAly is initially produced as a precursor possessing the signal peptide in hepatopancreatic cells and then secreted into digestive tract as the mature form. Thus, the mature HdAly was regarded to consist of 256 residues with the calculated molecular mass of 28895.5 Da. The amino acid sequence of HdAly showed 85 and 28% identity to those of Turbo cornutus alginate lyase SP2 and the C-terminal region of Chlorella virus lyase-like protein CL2, respectively, while it showed no significant identity to those of any bacterial alginate lyases. In order to provide the basis for the structure-function studies and various applications of the abalone lyase, a bacterial expression system was constructed by means of the HdAly-cDNA and pET-3a expression plasmid. Although the active recombinant HdAly was hardly produced at a cultivation temperature 37 degrees C in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3), a small amount of soluble and active enzyme could be produced when the temperature was lowered to 19 degrees C.