Seizure-related outcome after corticoamygdalohippocampectomy in patients with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy and mesial temporal sclerosis evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging alone. The authors conducted a study to assess the efficacy of surgery in patients who underwent magnetic resonance (MR) imaging alone for localization of foci in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE).One hundred patients (43 men, 57 women) with a clinical diagnosis of TLE were prospectively studied (mean age 28 +/- 9 years [+/- standard deviation {SD}]). All patients underwent high-resolution MR imaging, and in all unilateral mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) was diagnosed by visual inspection. All patients underwent interictal preoperative electroencephalography (EEG) and in 87 patients pre- and 1-year postoperative neuropsychological testing was performed. Both EEG and neuropsychological examinations were conducted in a blinded fashion, and these data were not taken into account during the surgery-related decision-making process. All patients underwent a corticoamygdalohippocampectomy at the side of the MTS. Surgery-related outcome was rated as Class I (seizure free or simple partial seizures only) or Class II (> or = 90% improvement). The follow-up period ranged from 18 to 48 months (mean 24 +/- 5 months [+/-SD]). No patient underwent prolonged video-EEG monitoring, Wada testing, positron emission tomography, or single-photon emission computerized tomography. In eighty-nine patients Class I results were achieved, and 11 Class II results were achieved postoperatively. There was no mortality in this series. Except for in two patients who underwent surgery in the dominant temporal lobe, there was no postoperatively cognitive decline. In these two patients verbal memory decline occurred, which was associated with posterior temporal cortical damage, demonstrated postoperatively on MR imaging. Twenty-five percent of the patients experienced improved memory function related to the nonoperated side, and 54% experienced a 10% gain in general intelligence quotient status.In patients with clinically suspected TLE, MR imaging alone is able to localize temporal lobe foci correctly. Ruling out pseudoseizures remains the only indication for prolonged video-EEG recordings in this group of patients.