Enteric and foodborne disease in children: A review of the influence of food- and environment-related risk factors. Canadian statistics show that children from birth to four years of age are more likely to be reported with an infection from Campylobacter, Giardia, Salmonella and Shigella species, and verotoxigenic Escherichia coli than any other age group. A review of the Canadian and international literature, and an analysis of case and outbreak data suggest that the risk factors for infection in young children (ages birth to four years) are different from the risk factors for older children and adults. In children from birth to four years of age, infant formula, fast foods, snacks and candies have caused major outbreaks of enteric and foodborne diseases however, the contamination of a child's environment or the presence of ill individuals in a household may be highly significant to disease expression. Contact with animals (including family pets) and contaminated surfaces, together with experimental touching and testing behaviours, are important routes of infection for infants and preschool children. Risk factors for enteric infections in children appear to be related, occasionally, to specific foods that are particularly attractive to all children (all age groups from infants up to and including elementary school-aged childen), to an infected person or pet in the same household, or to the contamination of a child's environment. Nonfood-related risk factors may be of particular significance in infection in infants and very young children. Contact with animals, particularly exotic pets and farm animals, or their environments should be considered to be a potential source of infection in children in situations in which there is an absence of other risk factors. The evidence presented in the current paper emphasizes the importance of personal and home hygiene practices in limiting children's exposure to enteric pathogens. Strict hand washing practices and restrictions on touching birds, reptiles and other animals at petting zoos or in nursery and primary school facilities are recommended to avoid widespread infection. Public health authorities should consider the development of guidelines on the provision of hand washing facilities and instruction notices in settings where the public may come into contact with farm or other animals in jurisdictions where such guidelines do not already exist.