Inventory resources of nuclear medicine. The first survey of the German Society of Nuclear Medicine (DGN) to assess the resources of our speciality named "Inventory Resources of Nuclear Medicine" aims to provide a reliable data basis for existing and future activities of the DGN. The involvement and participation of as many colleagues as possible will play an important role for the success of the development of our profession.214 leading nuclear medicine professionals were identified as the target group. The questionnaire contained 13 different categories. Apart from individual-related questions, memberships in other societies as well as activities in federal or governmental boards, professional self-government or support groups were inquired. Participation in guideline programmes as well as other special experiences, knowledge or contacts, which could be relevant for the work of our boards and working groups, were also subject of the survey.The data of 112 (52.3%) returned questionnaires were analysed. 57 persons state that they have already been involved in the activities of the DGN. Almost three quarters of these persons (n = 42) explicitly affirm their further commitment to the DGN in the future. Another 35 respondents can envisage such a future commitment for themselves. More than half of all colleagues (n = 69) are members of a regional society of nuclear medicine, and 80 are members of at least one professional society or association. This amounts to 3.3 memberships per person. 43 respondents are or have been involved in the clinical guideline development by the DGN or by other medical disciplines. In the future more than half of these persons are willing to participate in the guideline development furthermore. 13 colleagues have participated in the 30 reviews or official hearings concerning the clinical evidence evaluation of PET/CT by the German Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG) (effective date: January 15, 2012). 21 (18.8%) persons are members of 23 federal, governmental or other political boards with relevance for research. 38 persons (33.9%) are committed to professional self-governmental bodies. 14 colleagues stated that they support the work of patient interest groups or other non-profit organisations as consultants or advisors. In most cases, this work is related to the patient interest group "Living without Thyroid". 14 colleagues report special experiences or knowledge that could be helpful for our DGN working groups. In the same manner, good contacts to government departments and agencies or representatives of politics and economy (stated by 24 respondents) can be of advantage to further shape the DGN's professional profile in the German health care sector.As the result of a continuously advanced professionalization (2), the DGN has a good infrastructure concerning the political and professional work of its boards (executive committee and working groups). The operational and administrative work of the society and its boards is carried out or coordinated entirely by the society's office. Especially the development of the professional potential within the DGN by increasingly involving leaders working in clinical routine or research is the basis for the future of nuclear medicine.