Localization of neuroendocrine tumours and insulinomas using radiolabelled somatostatin analogues, 123I-Tyr3-octreotide and 111In-pentatreotide. A number of neoplasms are known to express somatostatin receptors the use of somatostatin receptor imaging in their localization has recently been described, but the resolution and discrimination of the isotopes used remains sub-optimal. We have looked at the use of a new 111In-labelled analogue of somatostatin, pentatreotide, in the visualization and functional characterization of a number of neoplastic conditions.Thirteen patients with proven neoplasms were scanned using this agent. Planar and single-photon-emission computerized tomographic (SPECT) images of the relevant part of the body were obtained using a gamma-camera at 10 minutes and 4 and 21 hours after injection of the radiopharmaceutical. In six patients (three carcinoid, three insulinomas) scanning was also performed using 123I-Tyr-3-octreotide.Primary tumours or metastases were visualized in six of the seven patients with neuroendocrine tumours, and three of six patients with insulinoma. One patient with an insulinoma who had a positive scan showed absent uptake when rescanned after tumour removal. A rise in blood glucose (more than twice basal) in response to octreotide was seen only in those insulinoma patients with positive scans. In cases where both 111In-pentratreotide and 123I-Tyr-3-octreotide scans were performed, both radiopharmaceuticals identified the same 4/6 tumours however, tumour definition (reflecting high tumour to background ratio) was better with pentatreotide on the 21-hour images with minimum biliary and gut activity, allowing better resolution of the tumour image.It appears that 111In-pentatreotide scintigraphy is a rapid and safe procedure for the visualization of neuroendocrine tumours possessing somatostatin binding sites. A positive scan may be predictive of neuroendocrine responsiveness to octreotide therapy. In addition, it also appears that 111In-pentatreotide has superior kinetics compared to 123I-Tyr-3-octreotide, typically achieving more satisfactory tumour to background ratios, and may thus be more useful in the localization of endocrine tumours.