In vivo imaging of pituitary tumours using a radiolabelled dopamine D2 receptor radioligand. Knowledge of the dopamine D2 receptor status of pituitary tumours may play a predictive role in differential diagnosis and therapeutic decisions. This study was performed to evaluate the value of pituitary dopamine D2 receptor scintigraphy with (S)-2-hydroxy-3-123I-iodo-6-methoxy-N-[(1-ethyl-2-pyrrolidinyl) methyl]benzamide (123I-IBZM) in the diagnostic evaluation of patients with pituitary tumours.Scintigraphy using 123I-IBZM was performed in 5 patients with PRL-secreting macroadenomas, 2 patients with PRL-secreting microadenomas, 17 patients with clinically non-functioning pituitary adenomas (NFPAs), 12 patients with GH-secreting adenomas and 1 patient with a TSH-secreting macroadenoma.Single-photon emission tomography (SPECT) showed significant uptake of 123I-IBZM in the pituitary region in 3/5 macroprolactinoma patients. These results closely correlated with the response of plasma PRL levels to the dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinagolide. In two scan-positive prolactinoma patients, repeated SPECTs during therapy with quinagolide showed a reduction in the pituitary uptake of 123I-IBZM. Pituitary SPECT was negative in the 2 microprolactinoma patients, who responded to quinagolide administration. In 4/17 patients with NFPA, significant uptake of the radioligand in the pituitary region was observed. In 2/3 scan-positive NFPA patients, who were treated with quinagolide, shrinkage of the pituitary tumours was observed. Treatment with quinagolide resulted in stabilization of tumour growth in the other scan-positive patients. Four out of 17 patients with NFPA and a negative SPECT were treated with quinagolide. Tumour growth was observed in 1 patient, and tumour size did not change in the other 3 patients. The pituitary region of none of the 12 acromegaly patients showed significant uptake of 123I-IBZM. Sensitivity of the GH-secreting adenomas to quinagolide was demonstrated in 8/12 patients in vivo by an acute test, and in 6/9 of the tumours in vitro. Pituitary SPECT was negative in the patient with the TSH-secreting macroadenoma and this tumour also showed no sensitivity to quinagolide in vivo or in vitro.We conclude that 123I-IBZM is a ligand for in vivo imaging of dopamine agonist- sensitive macroprolactinomas, but not for microprolactinomas or GH-secreting adenomas. The technique potentially provides a means of predicting the dopamine agonist-responses of non-functioning pituitary adenomas in vivo.