Functional MRI study of thalamic and cortical activations evoked by cutaneous heat, cold, and tactile stimuli. Positron emission tomography studies have provided evidence for the involvement of the thalamus and cortex in pain and temperature perception. However, the involvement of these structures in pain and temperature perception of individual subjects has not been studied in detail with high spatial resolution imaging. As a first step toward this goal, we have used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to locate discrete regions of the thalamus, insula, and second somatosensory cortex (S2) modulated during innocuous and noxious thermal stimulation. Results were compared with those obtained during tactile stimulation of the palm. High resolution functional images were acquired on a 1.5 T echospeed GE MR system with an in-plane resolution of 1.7 mm. A modified peltier-type thermal stimulator was used to deliver innocuous cool and warm and noxious cold and hot stimuli for 40-60 s to the thenar eminence of normal male and female volunteers. Experimental paradigms consisted of four repetitions of interleaved control and task stimuli. A pixel by pixel statistical analysis of images obtained during each task versus control (e.g., noxious heat vs. warm, warm vs. neutral temperature, etc.) was used to determine task-related activations. Painful thermal stimuli activated discrete regions within the lateral and medial thalamus, and insula, predominantly in the anterior insula in most subjects, and the contralateral S2 in 50% of subjects. The innocuous thermal stimuli did not activate the S2 in any of the subjects but activated the thalamus and posterior insula in 50% of subjects. By comparison, innocuous tactile stimulation consistently activated S2 bilaterally and the contralateral lateral thalamus. These data also demonstrate that noxious thermal and innocuous tactile-related activations overlap in S2. The data also suggest that innocuous and noxious-related activations may overlap within the thalamus but may be located in different regions of the insula. Therefore, we provide support for a role of the anterior insula, S2, and thalamus in the perception of pain whereas the posterior insula appears to be involved in tactile and innocuous temperature perception. These data demonstrate the feasibility of using fMRI for studies of pain, temperature, and mechanical stimuli in individual subjects, even in small regions such as thalamic nuclei. However, the intersubject variability should be considered in future single subject imaging studies and studies that rely on averaged group responses.