Pathophysiology and treatment for cervical flexion myelopathy. Previous studies have suggested that spinal cord compression by the vertebral bodies and intervertebral discs during neck flexion cause cervical flexion myelopathy (CFM). However, the exact pathophysiology of CFM is still unknown, and surgical treatment for CFM remains controversial. We examined retrospectively patients with CFM based on studies of the clinical features, neuroradiological findings, and neurophysiological assessments. The objectives of this paper are to investigate the pathophysiology of CFM, and to examine an optimal surgical treatment. Twenty-three patients (20 male, three female) with age of onset ranging from 11 to 23 years (mean 15.7 years) were examined for the study. All patients were inspected by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), myelogram, or computed tomographic myelogram (CTM) of the cervical spine. In eight patients, dynamic motor evoked potentials (MEP) studies were performed. Five patients underwent surgical treatment two patients had cervical duraplasty with laminoplasty, two patients had musculotendinous transfer, one patient had both of these procedures, and the remaining 18 patients were treated conservatively. Amyotrophy of the hand intrinsic and flexor muscle group of the forearm except the brachioradial muscle was observed hemilaterally in 20 patients and bilaterally in three patients. In three patients, T1-weighted MRI with neck flexion showed linear high intensity regions in the epidural space. In all patients, axial MRI/CTM demonstrated flattening of the spinal cord with the posterior surface of the dura mater shifting anteriorly. The amplitude of MEPs decreased after cervical flexion in two patients with progressive muscular atrophy. In three patients, dysesthesia of the upper extremities disappeared following cervical duraplasty. Musculotendinous transfer for three patients significantly improved the performance of their upper extremity. The findings of this study suggest that degenerative changes of the dura mater may be a characteristic pathology of CFM. Cervical duraplasty with laminoplasty is effective for cases at an early stage, and musculotendinous transfer should be selected in patients at a late stage.