Recovery of function after spinal cord hemisection in newborn and adult rats: differential effects on reflex and locomotor function. It is often assumed that the response of the immature nervous system to injury is more robust and exhibits greater anatomical reorganization and greater recovery of function than in the adult. In the present experiments the extent of recovery of function after spinal cord injury at birth or at maturity was assessed. We used a series of quantitative tests of motor behavior to measure reflex responses and triggered movements and to examine different components of locomotion. Rats received a midthoracic "over-hemisection" at birth or as adults. The neonatal operates were allowed to mature and the adult operates were allowed to recover. The animals were trained to walk on a treadmill and to cross runways of varying difficulty. The animals were tested for reflex responses and triggered movements, videotaped while crossing the runways, and footprinted while walking on the treadmill. The adult operates had greater deficits in the reflex responses than the neonatal operates. The adult operates lost the contact placing response and had a decreased hopping response in the ipsilateral limb, while these responses were not impaired in the neonatal operates. Although the contact placing response in the neonatal operates was spared, a greater stimulus was necessary to induce the response than in control animals. In contrast, the neonatal operates had greater deficits in locomotion. Footprint analysis revealed that the animals' base of support was significantly greater after the neonatal injury than after the adult injury, and deficits in limb rotation were larger in the neonatal operates than in the adult operates. Both groups crossed the grid with a similar number of steps but the adult operates made significantly more errors with the hindlimb ipsilateral to the lesion than the contralateral one, while the neonatal operates made an equivalent number of errors with both limbs. The neonatal operates took longer to execute the climb test and used a different movement pattern than the adult operates. The neonatal operates had a different locomotor pattern than the adult operates. Despite greater recovery of reflex responses after spinal cord injury at birth, the pattern of locomotion exhibits greater deficits when compared with the same lesion in the adult. Just as the anatomical consequences of injury to the developing nervous system are not uniform, similarly, the behavioral consequences are also not uniform. Spinal cord injury before the mature pattern of locomotion has developed results in a different motor strategy than after injury in the adult.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)