Clinical efficacy of the vertebral wedge osteotomy for the fusionless treatment of paralytic scoliosis. Pre-post intervention study using outcome measure design.To evaluate the clinical efficacy and functional impact of a fusionless treatment for paralytic scoliosis at 2-year follow-up.It has been shown that 67% of pediatric patients with progressive paralytic scoliosis require spinal fusion to correct the curve. However, maintenance of spinal flexibility, motion, and potential growth is desirable.Fourteen patients with scoliosis secondary to spinal cord injury or myelodysplasia underwent a fusionless vertebral wedge osteotomy. Thirteen patients were available for minimum 2-year follow-up, using standard scoliosis radiographs. The functional impact of the procedure was evaluated using the Pediatric Outcomes Data Collection Instrument (PODCI), the Functional Independence Measure (FIM), and the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM).At a minimum 2-year follow-up, 10 patients of 13 (77%) had improvement of greater than 5 degrees in their coronal Cobb angle. Two (15%) patients' curves measured the same (+/-5 degrees). One patient's curve had worsened by 12 degrees as compared to the preoperative Cobb angle. The overall average correction of the 13 patients was 56.1%. Two patients required fusion with an average delay to fusion of 30 months. At current follow-up, range of motion across the treated levels averaged 43 degrees (range 8 degrees to 103 degrees). The FIM showed no changes pre to post, and the PODCI scores showed some increases at 2-year follow-up. Clinical and statistical improvement in performance and satisfaction scores was seen pre to post on the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure.Vertebral wedge osteotomy is potentially an effective treatment option for paralytic scoliosis. At 2-year follow-up, there was no loss of function as measured by the PODCI and FIM, and there was improvement in the COPM. Cobb angle measurements were either improved or maintained in 12 of 13 patients. Although 2 patients required fusion, they had an average of 2.5 years of subsequent growth before surgery.