Cephalometric characteristics of black African children 3-6 years of age with nasal obstruction. To determine the cephalometric craniofacial characteristic of the child with chronic rhinopharyngeal obstruction.It is about a comparative cross-sectional study with etiologic aiming including children of the 2 sexes, old from 3 to 6 years. The pathological subjects are represented by those presenting a chronic rhinopharyngeal obstruction due to the presence of hypertrophied tonsils (n = 29) and the "normal" subjects, those without any rhinopharyngeal obstruction (n = 30). Lateral cephalometric radiographs were obtained for each subject. The conventional landmarks were determined with the subject's head in neutral position. The two groups underwent cephalometric measurements. The cephalometric analysis was made starting from conventional landmarks resulting from soft tissues and osseous structures. Various statistical tests (test t of student, test of Kruskal Wallis, test of Mann-Whitney) were used for the exploitation of the cephalometric data.On the skeletal level, the length of the posterior cranial base was shorter at the pathological subjects than at the healthy subjects. Concerning the mandible, the height of the ramus and the length of the mandibular corpus are also weaker at the pathological subjects than at the witnesses. The hyoid bone is further away from the 3rd cervical vertebra and the craniocervical angle is more open at the pathological subjects, representing a modification of the slope of the cervical column. On the level of the rhinopharyngeal space, the average distances from the posterior nasal spine at the posterior edge of the rhinopharyngeal space and between the posterior nasal spine and the posterior base of the base of cranium are respectively of 19,43 +/- 4,78 mm and 37,56 +/- 2,95 mm. These measurements are not significantly different from those described in the literature.Our study highlighted skeletal modifications in children presenting a rhinopharyngeal obstruction. Even if they do not justify all the symptoms met, these modifications can represent a readjustment of the pharyngeal corridor aiming at facilitating the flow of airflow.