Epidemiological characteristics of adult SCIWORA in Tianjin, China: a preliminary study. The epidemiology of spinal cord injury without radiographic abnormality (SCIWORA) is less frequently reported in adults as compared with children. The annual incidence of SCIWORA was approximately 5.74% per million in Tianjin from 2004 to 2008. Importantly, the epidemiological characteristics of adult SCIWORA may be different from that in children. The aim of this study was to evaluate the radiological-clinical data of patients with adult SCIWORA, and to relatively analyze the epidemiological features.Inpatients with cervical SCIWORA who were 16 and above in Tianjin were admitted in municipal hospitals in Tianjin from 2004 to 2008 all the patients received MRI scanning in sagittal and axial views. Epidemiological characteristics, such as injury origin, injury level or severity, neurological scale and MRI feature were acquired.In total, 203 patients were enrolled. The average age among the adult groups was 55.9 years (men 55.8 years, women 53.6 years). SCIWORA occurred more commonly in adults in the 46-60 age group, and falls were the leading cause of injury (52.2%), followed by vehicular injury (28.6%). The most predominantly affected level was C4/5 (48.7%), followed by C5/6 (30.5%) and C3/4 (12.8%), respectively. The occurrence of central cord syndrome (50.2%) with posterior longitudinal ligament tear (43.8%) was relatively higher than other injury patterns.It is clear that adult cervical SCIWORA is different from that in the pediatric group. Our study highlights the epidemiological properties of adult SCIWORA in Tianjin, China. Differing from other reports, particularly epidemiology study, we represent the first report regarding adult SCIWORA from China. As the geriatric population increases, it is very important to set up an individualized evaluation system based on a nationally scaled epidemiological database. The results from our study will be useful in assisting in the creation of such a database.