Functional outcome of patients 12 and 48 weeks after acute traumatic tetraplegia and paraplegia: data analysis from 2004-2009. During the first rehabilitation of patients with traumatic spinal cord injuries (SCIs), professional skills are learned, which can be objectified in an independent measurement score. The aims of this study were to record the skills of patients 12 and 48 weeks after acute trauma and perform an analysis of the data to identify provisions of importance.All patients from 2004 to 2009 who experienced traumatic SCI were included in this investigation. Data recording were accomplished by the European Multi-Centre Study about Spinal Cord Injury (EMSCI) databank. Patients were divided into tetraplegia and paraplegia groups. Parameters were age at injury, the American Spinal Injury Association-Score, level of lesion and spinal cord independence measure (SCIM-Score) 12 and 48 weeks after traumatic spinal cord lesion. A questionnaire was also added to help clarify where deficiencies were prevalent.Data analysis of 103 tetraplegic and 110 paraplegic patients showed no correlation between the ASIA score, level of lesion, age and SCIM score. On average, tetraplegic patients had a SCIM score of 43 points 12 weeks after treatment, with 81% showing an increase to 58 points after 48 weeks. Paraplegic patients showed an average SCIM score of 60 points after 12 weeks, with 71% experiencing an increase to 71 points after 48 weeks. In all, 9% of tetraplegic patients and 19% of paraplegic patients experienced a decrease of SCIM points after 48 weeks, which occurred mainly in the bladder and intestinal control subgroups. Results of the questionnaire were not helpful for clarifying the location of the deficiencies.Most of the patients experienced an increase of SCIM points 48 weeks after traumatic SCI. However, data also showed that, especially in paraplegic patients, special attention must be given to bladder and intestinal management to avoid negative late-term consequences.