Is extended antibiotic prophylaxis necessary after penetrating trauma to the thoracolumbar spine with concomitant intraperitoneal injuries? Prolonged courses of broad-spectrum antibiotics are often cited as standard care for the prevention of infectious complications in thoracolumbar or sacral (TLS) fractures following penetrating abdominal trauma. Perforation of a hollow viscus in addition to a TLS fracture is believed to be associated with a high incidence of spine infection. Because over use of antibiotics is associated with an increasing prevalence of multi-drug-resistant organisms, this study seeks to define the actual risk of infection of the spine and need for antibiotics in patients with TLS fractures and intraperitoneal injuries following penetrating trauma.A retrospective review of 67 patients with penetrating abdominal trauma and concomitant TLS fracture was performed. Demographics, level of TLS fracture, associated spinal cord injury (SCI), need for operative intervention, presence of concomitant hollow viscus injury, and type and duration of antibiotic coverage were collected. In addition, associated infectious complications were reviewed. Spine infections were defined as spinal or paraspinal abscess, osteomyelitis of the spine, or meningitis. Intraabdominal infections were defined with imaging studies or positive peritoneal cultures.Sixty-seven patients (mean age of 27 ± 9 years) had an exploratory laparotomy and one or more TLS fractures. Four patients died within 24 h and were excluded from further study. Thirty-eight patients (60%) had one or more hollow viscus injuries, 13 (21%) had solid organ injuries alone and 12 (19%) had a non-therapeutic laparotomy. All patients received perioperative antibiotics 92% received 48 h or less of antibiotic prophylaxis and 62% received only 24 h of antibiotics. In one patient with an isolated solid organ injury there was a spine infection (1%).In this study, 92% of patients received antibiotics for 48 h or less with no increased incidence of spine infections. Bacterial colonization of the vertebrae was not higher in patients with penetrating gastrointestinal injury. There is insufficient evidence to support the use of prolonged antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent spine infection in patients with penetrating abdominal trauma and TLS fracture.