Rotational injury of cervical facets: CT analysis of fracture patterns with implications for management and neurologic outcome. Imaging studies of patients with rotational facet injuries of the cervical spine were retrospectively reviewed to determine the prevalence and pattern of associated fractures, to correlate injury pattern with recommended surgical stabilization, and to assess neurologic outcome.Radiographs and CT scans obtained for 40 consecutive patients with rotational facet injuries of the cervical spine during a 70-month period were retrospectively reviewed to determine injury level, presence, and orientation of facet fractures, and concurrent nonfacet injuries. Imaging findings were reviewed to assess the likelihood of instability and to determine the most appropriate stabilization requirement. Medical records were reviewed to ascertain mechanism of injury, initial neurologic deficit, and surgical findings.Among the 40 patients with cervical rotational facet injuries, 11 (27%) had pure unilateral facet dislocation or subluxation without associated fractures, and 29 (73%) had concurrent facet fractures involving the inferior facet of the rotated vertebra (n = 13), the superior facet of the subjacent vertebra (n = 9), or both (n = 7). Injury of the rotated vertebra was unilateral in 22 patients but bilateral in 18 patients. Facet fractures frequently extended into the ipsilateral lamina or articular pillar or both. An avulsion fracture from the posteroinferior aspect of the rotated vertebral body, indicating disk disruption, occurred in 10 patients (25%), and seven patients (17%) had complete isolation of an articular pillar. Facet fractures were confirmed for 27 patients who underwent surgical stabilization. Neurologic deficits developed in 29 (73%) of the 40 patients and included radiculopathy in 11 patients and cord syndromes in 18 patients. Pure dislocation without a facet fracture was more likely to lead to a cord syndrome (p = .006).Cervical rotational facet injuries are often accompanied by facet fractures and bilateral damage of the rotated vertebra. These injuries contribute to rotational instability and require specific internal fixation based on a precise delineation of all injuries. Facet dislocations without fractures have a significantly higher association with cord syndromes than do rotational facet injuries with fractures. CT, particularly with parasagittal reformations, is valuable in identifying all injuries of the rotated and subjacent vertebrae.