Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma and p53 codon 72 polymorphism: a need for screening? The association between human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated cervical cancer and cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma and codon 72 polymorphism in the p53 gene is not unequivocal. Especially, it is not known whether carriers of the arginine form have an increased risk of cancer that necessitates screening. The alternative is that the polymorphism is a tumor marker instead of a risk factor. We set out a case-control study to determine the risk of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin in individuals with the p53 codon 72 arginine genotype in order to establish the possible need for screening. The distribution of the different p53 codon 72 genotypes was examined in 86 subjects with a history of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma and in 168 controls. Additionally, 121 subjects who had had histologically proven basal cell carcinoma and 108 subjects who had had non-familial malignant melanoma were tested. p53 polymorphism was evaluated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using DNA samples from peripheral blood lymphocytes. In a subgroup of patients with squamous cell carcinoma and controls, the presence of epidermodyplasia verruciformis human papillomavirus (EV-HPV) DNA was determined in plucked eyebrow hair. Differences in the distributions of the genotypes among cases and controls were calculated, and univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to assess the risk to develop cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma in the presence of the p53 codon 72 arginine genotype. Frequency distributions of the three different genotypes (homozygous for the arginine allele, heterozygous for the two alleles, and homozygous for the proline allele) were similar among the squamous cell carcinoma group and the control group: 47.1%, 46.0% and 6.9% versus 47.8%, 45.8% and 6.4%, respectively. Statistical analysis showed no significant differences between these groups. In patients with squamous cell carcinoma and controls who harbored EV-HPV DNA in their plucked eyebrow hair, similar results were obtained. The distributions of the p53 codon 72 genotypes in the basal cell carcinoma and malignant melanoma group were also not significantly different from the control group. p53 codon 72 arginine homozygosity does not appear to represent a significant risk factor for cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma and screening seems not to be indicated. Mol. Carcinog. 30:56-61, 2001.