Knowledge of cervix cancer, human papilloma virus (HPV) and HPV vaccination at the moment of introduction of the vaccine in women in Belgium. To test the knowledge of women, attending a gynecology clinic, on HPV, cervix cancer awareness and the knowledge and willingness to use HPV vaccine for themselves or their children.Routine gynecological and obstetrical care with ambulatory service in a medium-sized general hospital in a small town in Belgium (Heilig Hart Hospital, Tienen).Questionnaire to be filled out by 381 consecutive women while in the attendance room for consultation with one of the four gynecologists. Fisher T or Chi(2) were used as statistical methods.Knowledge about HPV as a cause of cervix cancer and the existence of a vaccine was roughly 50%. Women with lower education were more likely to know nothing about the cause of cervix cancer than women with higher education (54 versus 39%, P = 0.016). Half of the women were willing to accept the vaccine, whatever the cost price, and 40% required more information or refunding. Compared to women above 40, young age (25 years or less) was a risk factor for poor knowledge of HPV (P = 0.007), cervix cancer (P = 0.016) and the HPV vaccine (P = 0.07), regardless of a higher degree of education (79% postgraduate degree versus 43.4% in the 40+-year-old women, P = 0.006). Women with a daughter (64.7%) or a son (69.2%) were more inclined to vaccinate their daughter than women without children (46.3%, P < 0.0001). None of the women declined the vaccination because it was meant to protect against a sexually transmitted disease (STD).Upon introduction and marketing of the first HPV vaccine, only 50% of women attending a routine gynecology clinic were aware of the role of HPV in cervix cancer and the possibility of getting a vaccination against it. Unexpectedly, despite a high degree of education, young women seem to have a low awareness of cervix cancer, its cause and the preventive measures. Contrary to some women in the USA, Western European women are less likely to decline the HPV vaccine because it will protect them against STD. In Belgium, women who are childless or poorly educated and especially young women should be the targets of campaigns that motivate them to prevent HPV-induced cervix cancer.