Dendrosome-based delivery of siRNA against E6 and E7 oncogenes in cervical cancer. Although small interfering RNA (siRNA) treatment holds great promise for the treatment of cancers, the field has been held back by the availability of suitable delivery vehicles. For cervical cancer the E6 and E7 oncogenes are ideal siRNA targets for treatment. The purpose of the present study was to explore the potential of dendrosomes for the delivery of siRNA targeting E6 and E7 proteins of cervical cancer cells in vitro. Optimization of dendrimer generation and nitrogen-to-phosphate (N/P) ratio was carried out using dendrimer-fluorescein isothiocyanate oligo complexes. The optimized N/P ratios were used in formulating complexes between dendrimers and siRNA targeting green fluorescence protein (siGFP). Although formulation 4D100 (dendrimer-siRNA complex) displayed the highest GFP knockdown, it was also found to be highly toxic to cells. In the final formulation 4D100 was encapsulated into dendrosomes so as to mask these toxic effects. The optimized dendrosomal formulation (DF), DF3 was found to possess a siGFP-entrapment efficiency of 49.76% +/- 1.62%, vesicle size of 154 +/- 1.73 nm, and zeta potential of +3.21 +/- 0.07 mV. The GFP knockdown efficiency of DF3 (dendrosome) was found to be almost identical to that of 4D100, but the former was completely nontoxic to the cells. DF3 containing siRNA against E6 and E7 was found to knock down the target genes considerably, as compared with the other formulations tested. Our results imply that dendrosomes hold potential for the delivery of siRNA and that a suitable targeting strategy could be useful for applications in vivo.siRNA treatment holds great promise for the treatment of cancers, but overall, the availability of suitable delivery vehicles remains a major issue. The purpose of this study was to explore the potential of dendrosomes for the delivery of siRNA targeting specific proteins in cervical cancer cells in vitro. The results suggest that dendrosomes hold potential for the delivery of siRNA and a suitable targeting strategy could be useful for applications in vivo.