Clinical performance characteristics of the Cervista HPV HR test kit in cervical cancer screening in China. A multicenter clinical trial was performed to evaluate and validate the performance of Cervista HPV HR test and to establish its effectiveness in identifying women at risk of having cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 2 (CIN 2) or higher grade (CIN 2+) in the Chinese population.Residual ThinPrep Pap Test samples from women who are negative for intraepithelial lesion or malignancy (NILM) and atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASCUS) or higher grade cytology were tested for high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV). The HPV test results were compared with histology results to determine the clinical sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of Cervista HPV HR for CIN 2+. The analytical accuracy of Cervista HPV HR compared with consensus HPV L1 polymerase chain reaction (PCR)/sequencing was also determined.A total of 1,064 subjects were enrolled, including 544 with NILM cytology and 520 with ASCUS or higher grade cytology. Complete data sets including cytology, high-risk HPV test, colposcopy, and histology results for all subjects with ASCUS or higher grade were included in the analysis. The positive rate of Cervista HPV HR was 12.5% in patients with NILM and 69.04% in patients with ASCUS or higher grade. The overall percentage agreement between Cervista HPV HR and PCR with bidirectional sequencing was 86.26%, with positive percentage agreement and negative percentage agreement being 93.4% and 83.3%, respectively. In the overall population, the Cervista HPV HR positivity rate was 38.96% compared with 29.08% for PCR/sequencing. The clinical sensitivity and specificity for CIN 2+ of Cervista HPV HR were 98.50% and 68.21%, respectively. The negative and positive predictive values were 99.69% and 30.68%, respectively.The Cervista HPV HR test, performed on ThinPrep Pap Test samples, has the clinical performance characteristics required by China for use as part of routine cervical cancer screening.