<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-04-26</DATELINE><TITLE>Novel Molecular Diagnostics and Therapeutic Tools for Livestock Diseases</TITLE><BODY>Recent novelties in diverse diagnostics and therapeutic tools in animal health sector have paved a brighter and clearer way ahead. These are proved to be better in detection, management, control and eradication of animal sufferings caused by various infectious and non-infectious diseases. These innovations have potential impact that extends beyond the animal health and welfare. The advancements have significantly contributed towards improvement in the economy of the country as well as food security. In the present competitive era of evolution, the organisms have inculcated a number of new strategies for survival and spread. Therefore, science needs to continuously evolve more sensitive, specific and high-throughput tools to overcome pathogen cleverness to escape from host immune surveillance. For visible or remarkable changes, it is necessary to use full potential of these advanced molecular techniques into current animal health standards and practices. Under ‘One Health’ concept, the health of animals and humans has to be taken care simultaneously. At present, these advanced molecular diagnostic methods play a significant role in the detection of new and emerging pathogens of livestock. The acquired information also helps to study the interrelationships of pathogens, their hosts and their surroundings. Additionally new vaccines bridging human and animal health development may be discovered. Latest developments in the field of diagnostics and vaccine design through genomics approach have also laid the foundation to enhance the diagnosis and surveillance and in turn helped in the control of infectious diseases. Latest high-throughput DNA sequencing platforms are currently being used for identification and detailed analysis of both disease pathogen and host genomes. The high-throughput data generated using these platforms need to be analysed adopting the bioinformatics and computational genomics that have taken a very high pace nowadays. In the context of animal health, the data analysis may provide some key opportunities for the development of better diagnostic and therapeutic tools for emerging or re-emerging diseases. Such novel and potent technologies put forward a significantly new scenario of disease knowledge, which enables more accurate predictions leading to faster and greater management responses to combat potentially devastating disease crises.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>