<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2017-10-04</DATELINE><TITLE>PCR Array Profiling of Antiviral Genes in Human Embryonic Kidney Cells Expressing Human Coronavirus OC43 Structural and Accessory Proteins</TITLE><BODY>BACKGROUND: Human coronavirus OC43 (HCoV-OC43) causes common cold, and is associated with severe respiratory symptoms in infants, elderly and immunocompromised patients. HCoV-OC43 is a member of Betacoronavirus genus that includes also the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) coronaviruses. Both SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV were shown to express proteins with the potential to evade early innate immune responses. However, the ability of HCoV-OC43 to antagonise the intracellular antiviral defences has not yet been investigated. The objective of this study was to investigate the role of HCoV-OC43 structural (membrane and nucleocapsid) and accessory (ns5a and ns2a) proteins in the modulation of antiviral gene expression profile in human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK-293) cells using PCR array analysis. METHODS: HCoV-OC43 membrane (M), nucleocapsid (N), ns5a and ns2a mRNA were amplified and cloned into the pAcGFP1-N expression vector (Clontech), followed by transfection in HEK-293 cells. Expression of M, N, ns5a and ns2a proteins were confirmed by indirect immunofluorescence test. Three days post-transfection, the cells were challenged by Sendai virus. The Human Antiviral Response PCR array system (Qiagen) was used to profile the antiviral gene expression in HEK-293 cells, using the fold regulation comparison and the manual normalisation methods. RESULTS: Around 50–60 genes were downregulated by HCoV-OC43 proteins, the most prominent genes being those critical for the activation of transcription factors involved in the antiviral response like interferon regulatory factors (IRFs) and activator protein 1 (AP-1). Among the most important downregulated genes were those coding for Interferons (IFNs) mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), pro-apoptotic and pyroptotic proteins (Caspases, cathepsins, tumour necrosis factor), pro-inflammatory cytokines (Interleukins), pattern recognition receptors (PRRs; toll-like receptors and NOD-like receptors) and their signaling transduction proteins (TICAM1, MAVS). CONCLUSION: This study shows for the first time that similarly to SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, HCoV-OC43 has the ability to downregulate the transcription of genes critical for the activation of different antiviral signaling pathways. DISCLOSURES: All authors: No reported disclosures.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>