<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2015-09-23</DATELINE><TITLE>Early Vertebrate Evolution of the Host Restriction Factor Tetherin</TITLE><BODY>Tetherin is an interferon-inducible restriction factor targeting a broad range of enveloped viruses. Its antiviral activity depends on an unusual topology comprising an N-terminal transmembrane domain (TMD) followed by an extracellular coiled-coil region and a C-terminal glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. One of the two membrane anchors is inserted into assembling virions, while the other remains in the plasma membrane of the infected cell. Thus, tetherin entraps budding viruses by physically bridging viral and cellular membranes. Although tetherin restricts the release of a large variety of diverse human and animal viruses, only mammalian orthologs have been described to date. Here, we examined the evolutionary origin of this protein and demonstrate that tetherin orthologs are also found in fish, reptiles, and birds. Notably, alligator tetherin efficiently blocks the release of retroviral particles. Thus, tetherin emerged early during vertebrate evolution and acquired its antiviral activity before the mammal/reptile divergence. Although there is only limited sequence homology, all orthologs share the typical topology. Two unrelated proteins of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum also adopt a tetherin-like configuration with an N-terminal TMD and a C-terminal GPI anchor. However, these proteins showed no evidence for convergent evolution and failed to inhibit virion release. In summary, our findings demonstrate that tetherin emerged at least 450 million years ago and is more widespread than previously anticipated. The early evolution of antiviral activity together with the high topology conservation but low sequence homology suggests that restriction of virus release is the primary function of tetherin. IMPORTANCE The continuous arms race with viruses has driven the evolution of a variety of cell-intrinsic immunity factors that inhibit different steps of the viral replication cycle. One of these restriction factors, tetherin, inhibits the release of newly formed progeny virions from infected cells. Although tetherin targets a broad range of enveloped viruses, including retro-, filo-, herpes-, and arenaviruses, the evolutionary origin of this restriction factor and its antiviral activity remained obscure. Here, we examined diverse vertebrate genomes for genes encoding cellular proteins that share with tetherin the highly unusual combination of an N-terminal transmembrane domain and a C-terminal glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor. We show that tetherin orthologs are found in fish, reptiles, and birds and demonstrate that alligator tetherin efficiently inhibits the release of retroviral particles. Our findings identify tetherin as an evolutionarily ancient restriction factor and provide new important insights into the continuous arms race between viruses and their hosts.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>