<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2016-02-17</DATELINE><TITLE>The Attenuation Phenotype of a Ribavirin-Resistant Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus Is Maintained during Sequential Passages in Pigs</TITLE><BODY>In a previous study, ribavirin-resistant porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) mutants (RVRp13 and RVRp22) were selected, and their resistance against random mutation was shown in cultured cells. In the present study, these ribavirin-resistant mutants were evaluated in terms of their genetic and phenotypic stability during three pig-to-pig passages in comparison with modified live virus (MLV) (Ingelvac PRRS MLV). Pigs challenged with RVRp22 had significantly lower (P < 0.05) viral loads in sera and tissues than pigs challenged with MLV or RVRp13 at the first passage, and the attenuated replication of RVRp22 was maintained until the third passage. Viral loads in sera and tissues dramatically increased in pigs challenged with MLV or RVRp13 during the second passage. Consistently, all five sequences associated with the attenuation of virulent PRRSV in RVRp13 and MLV quickly reverted to wild-type sequences during the passages, but two attenuation sequences were maintained in RVRp22 even after the third passage. In addition, RVRp22 showed a significantly lower (P < 0.001) mutation frequency in nsp2, which is one of the most variable regions in the PRRSV genome, than MLV. Nine unique mutations were found in open reading frames (ORFs) 1a, 2, and 6 in the RVRp22 genome based on full-length sequence comparisons with RVRp13, VR2332 (the parental virus of RVRp13 and RVRp22), and MLV. Based on these results, it was concluded that RVRp22 showed attenuated replication in pigs; further, because of the high genetic stability of RVRp22, its attenuated phenotype was stable even after three sequential passages in pigs. IMPORTANCE PRRSV is a rapidly evolving RNA virus. MLV vaccines are widely used to control PRRS; however, there have been serious concerns regarding the use of MLV as a vaccine virus due to the rapid reversion to virulence during replication in pigs. As previously reported, ribavirin is an effective antiviral drug against many RNA viruses. Ribavirin-resistant mutants reemerged by escaping lethal mutagenesis when the treatment concentration was sublethal, and those mutants were genetically more stable than parental viruses. In a previous study, two ribavirin-resistant PRRSV mutants (RVRp13 and RVRp22) were selected, and their higher genetic stability was shown in vitro. Consequently, in the present study, both of the ribavirin-resistant mutants were evaluated in terms of their genetic and phenotypic stability in vivo. RVRp22 was found to exhibit higher genetic and phenotypic stability than MLV, and nine unique mutations were identified in the RVRp22 genome based on a full-length sequence comparison with the RVRp13, VR2332, and MLV genomes.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>