Possible involvement of adipocyte-derived leucine aminopeptidase via angiotensin II in endometrial carcinoma. It has recently been appreciated that a local autocrine or paracrine renin-angiotensin system (RAS) may exist in a number of tissues. Angiotensin II (AngII) is a potent RAS-derived vasoconstrictor peptide, and it is involved in tumor angiogenesis. We have cloned human adipocyte-derived leucine aminopeptidase (A-LAP), which degrades Ang II. This study investigated whether the expression of A-LAP, Ang II, angiotensin type I receptor (AT1R) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) correlates with clinicopathologic factors and prognosis in patients with endometrial endometrioid adenocarcinoma.Histologic sections of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens from 94 primary endometrial carcinomas were stained for A-LAP, AngII, AT1R and VEGF using each antibody. Disease-free survival (DFS) and other clinicopathologic characteristics were analyzed according to the intensity of each staining.Of 94 cases, 91 (96.8%) showed specific A-LAP immunostaining. A-LAP expression demonstrated negative correlations with myometrial invasion (p = 0.01) and vascular infiltration (p = 0.01). Of 94 cases, 77 (81.9%) showed specific AngII immunostaining. We found a positive correlation between AngII expression and surgical stage (p = 0.01). Of 94 cases, 56 (59.6%) showed specific AT1R immunostaining and 73 (77.7%) specific VEGF immunostaining. We found a positive correlation between VEGF expression and lymph node metastasis (p = 0.05). AngII and AT1R expression predicted a significantly poorer prognosis. Contrarily, A-LAP expression indicated a significantly more favorable prognosis in endometrial endometrioid adenocarcinoma patients. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that A-LAP expression (odds ratio, 0.12 95% confidence interval, 0.025-0.618In this study, we demonstrated the existence of local RAS and A-LAP in endometrial endometrioid adenocarcinoma as prognostic predictors of clinical outcome. These findings suggest that the assessment of RAS and A-LAP status provides clinically useful prognostic information in patients with endometrial carcinoma.