Augmented cell survival in eutopic endometrium from women with endometriosis: expression of c-myc, TGF-beta1 and bax genes. Endometriosis is a common gynaecological disorder characterized by the presence of endometrial tissue outside of the uterus. The fragments in normal menstruation are composed of necrotic and living cells, which do not survive in ectopic locations because of programmed cell death. The aim of this study was to evaluate if the balance between cell proliferation and apoptosis is changed in eutopic endometrium from women with endometriosis throughout the menstrual cycle by studying bax (pro-apoptotic), c-myc (regulator of cell cycle) and TGF-beta1 (involved in cell differentiation) genes.Eutopic endometrium was obtained from: 30 women with endometriosis (32.8 +/- 5 years) and 34 fertile eumenorrheic women (36 +/- 5.3 years). We analyzed apoptosis (TUNEL: DNA fragmentation) cell proliferation (immunohistochemistry (IHC) for Ki67)Cell proliferation strongly decreased from proliferative to late secretory phases in glands, but not in stroma, in both endometria. Positive staining in glands and stroma from proliferative endometrium with endometriosis was 1.9- and 2.2-fold higher than control endometrium, respectively (p < 0.05). Abundance of c-myc mRNA was 65% higher in proliferative endometrium from endometriosis than normal tissue (p < 0.05). TGF-beta1 (mRNA and protein) augmented during mid secretory phase in normal endometrium, effect not observed in endometrium with endometriosis. In normal endometrium, the percentage of apoptotic epithelial and stromal cells increased more than 30-fold during late secretory phase. In contrast, in endometrium from endometriosis, not only this increase was not observed, besides bax mRNA decreased 63% versus normal endometrium (p < 0.05). At once, in early secretory phase, apoptotic stromal cells increased 10-fold with a concomitant augment of bax mRNA abundance (42%) in endometria from endometriosis (p < 0.05).An altered expression of c-myc, TGF-beta1 and bax was observed in eutopic endometrium from endometriosis, suggesting its participation in the regulation of cell survival in this disease. The augmented cell viability in eutopic endometrium from these patients as a consequence of a reduction in cell death by apoptosis, and also an increase in cell proliferation indicates that this condition may facilitate the invasive feature of the endometrium.