Role of uterine artery Doppler in interpreting low PAPP-A values in first-trimester screening for Down syndrome in pregnancies at high risk of impaired placentation. Low maternal serum levels of pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A (PAPP-A) are associated with both increased risk of aneuploidies and impaired trophoblastic invasion, while high uterine artery (UtA) resistance is associated with impaired trophoblastic invasion but not with an increased risk of aneuploidies. The aim of this study was to determine whether high UtA resistance plays a role in explaining low PAPP-A levels in the absence of aneuploidies.This was a prospective study of 116 singleton pregnancies at high risk for impaired placentation (having at least one major risk factor: prior history of pre-eclampsia, pregestational diabetes mellitus, chronic hypertension, chronic kidney disease, body mass index >30, autoimmune disorder, thrombophilia or recurrent pregnancy loss), booked for routine assessment of risk for aneuploidies by means of the first-trimester combined screening test (nuchal translucency thickness (NT) + PAPP-A + beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (beta-hCG)). Measurement of NT and the mean UtA pulsatility index (PI) were carried out at the 11 to 13 + 6-week scan. All values were calculated in multiples of the median (MoM) adjusted for gestational age. A cut-off risk of 1/270 at time of sampling was adopted to differentiate high- from low-risk groups for trisomy 21.There were 108 patients deemed to be at low risk for trisomy 21 and eight at high risk. None had chromosomal defects, giving a false-positive rate for trisomy 21 of 6.9%. The greatest differences between patients at low risk and those at high risk for trisomy 21 were found in their PAPP-A (0.98 vs. 0.38 MoM, P < 0.01) and beta-hCG (1.09 vs. 1.77 MoM, P = 0.04) values. Greater NT thickness (1.02 vs. 0.90 MoM) and higher mean UtA-PI (1.05 vs. 0.96 MoM) were recorded in the high-risk group, although the differences did not reach statistical significance (P = 0.19 and 0.40, respectively). After log-transformation there were no significant correlations between mean UtA-PI and NT and between mean UtA-PI and beta-hCG. There was a significant negative linear correlation between mean UtA-PI and PAPP-A (r = -0.331 P < 0.01). After adjusting the PAPP-A values by UtA-PI, the false-positive rate for trisomy 21 decreased to 2.6%.Mean UtA-PI at the 11 to 13 + 6-week scan may be an effect-modifier variable for PAPP-A that should be taken into account in the first-trimester combined screening for aneuploidies, at least in pregnancies at high risk for impaired placentation.