PAX8 mouse monoclonal antibody [BC12] recognizes a restricted epitope and is highly sensitive in renal cell and ovarian cancers but does not cross-react with b cells and tumors of pancreatic origin. PAX8 is expressed in a high percentage of renal cell and ovarian cancers however, the current existing anti-PAX8 rabbit polyclonal (P) antibodies also recognize B cells, pancreatic cancers, carcinoids, and some soft tissue tumors. Cross-reactivity with B cells can be especially troublesome in lymph nodes when identifying tumors of unknown origin. A new mouse monoclonal (M) anti-PAX8 antibody (Clone BC12) has been developed that recognizes PAX8 expression in a high percentage of renal cell and ovarian carcinomas, whereas exhibiting no staining of B cells. PAX8 (M) was tested for specificity and sensitivity in over 1300 cases of both normal and neoplastic tissues. PAX8 (M) demonstrated superior staining sensitivity in clear cell and papillary renal cell carcinomas (88.8% vs. 84.4%) and in serous and endometrioid ovarian carcinomas (87% vs. 83%), when compared with PAX8 (P). PAX8 (M) also stained a high percentage of endometrial and thyroid cancers, 67.5% and 60.7%, respectively. PAX8 (M) demonstrated low sensitivity in cervical and bladder cancers, 2.5% and 1.4%, respectively. All other cancers including lung, breast, prostate, stomach, liver, soft tissue, pancreas, testis, brain, colon, melanoma, lymphoma, adrenal, pituitary, and rectal were negative. In normal tissue, PAX8 (P) stained lymph nodes, pancreas, and neuroendocrine cells of stomach and colon. In contrast, PAX8 (M) was negative in each of these tissues. These results demonstrate that mouse monoclonal PAX8 [BC12] stains nuclei exclusively and performs well in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues. PAX8 (M) is a highly sensitive marker for thyroid, renal, and ovarian cancers. Importantly, PAX8 (M) does not stain B cells and does not seem to recognize epitopes of pancreatic origin and neuroendocrine cells in stomach and colon