Some aspects of hormonal regulation of the menstrual cycle. A review. A study was conducted to determine whether the hormone levels in peripheral blood reflect the readiness of the entire reproductive system to realize generative functions or only indicate the intactness of the ovulatory process and characterize the functional activity of the organs ensuring its realization.  Cycles were examined of both apparently healthy women with a history of pregnancy ended in either delivery or artificial abortion and cycles of women with an altered generative function.  Selection of abnormal cases was based on the menstrual pattern.  The menstrual profile in healthy women showed that the mean values of both gonadotropic and steroid hormones showed no significant differences as compared with the values reported in the literature for the normal menstrual cycle.  The mean basal values of luteinizing hormone (LH) during both phases of the cycle remained at a constant level and did not exceed 10 IU/1 ovulatory peak was 39.5.  Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) concentration began to rise at the end of the previous cycle and remained at a high level up to day 7 varying from 14.3 to 15.9 IU/1.  It then showed a transient decrease, to increase again simultaneously with the LH peak, reaching the value of 20.3 IU/1.  Then, up to day 9, there was a reduction in FSH.  This was followed by another increase in the basal secretion of the hormone.  The secretion of estradiol was characterized by a biphasic increase.  Progesterone concentration increased significantly on the day of the LH peak, elevating progressively until day 8 to 44.0 nmol/1.  The process of ovulation in individual cycles was associated with markedly different quantitative parameters of hormonal secretion.  Investigation of the sex hormone pattern in patients with impaired reproductive function showed that their process of ovulation was associated with widely variable hormonal patterns, as is the case in normal women.  Sharp deviations in hormonal secretion were observed only in patients with endometrioid cysts of the ovaries and severely impaired reproductive function.  On the basis of these results, it may be assumed that quantitative parameters of hormonal secretion are not decisive in the endocrine control of the ovulatory process.  The fact that patients with an altered gonadotropin secretion may have normal ovulation provides corroboration for the postulate of Corner (1956) and unanimously accepted at this time that the rhythmic character of the activity of the reproductive system is controlled by the ovaries.