Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in endometriosis. Angiogenesis is likely to be involved in the pathogenesis of endometriosis. According to the transplantation theory, when the exfoliated endometrium is attached to the peritoneal layer, the establishment of a new blood supply is essential for the survival of the endometrial implant and development of endometriosis. From the known angiogenic factors, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has emerged as a pivotally important regulator of normal angiogenesis and pathological neovascularization. The VEGF protein was evaluated immunohistochemically in the eutopic endometrium of 10 women without endometriosis (group I) at laparoscopy and the eutopic endometrium and peritoneal endometriotic lesions of 43 women with endometriosis (group II). VEGF histological scores were 9.7 +/- 4.3 and 4.0 +/- 2.6 respectively in the epithelium and stroma of the eutopic endometrium of group I women, and 10.3 +/- 2.3 and 3.6 +/- 2.3 respectively in women of group II. In red lesions, the VEGF scores were 11.1 +/- 3.0 in the epithelium and 5.1 +/- 3.0 in the stroma, and in black lesions were 8.6 +/- 2.7 and 1.6 +/- 1.6, respectively. Significantly lower values were observed in black lesions as compared with eutopic endometrium and red lesions, the values of which were similar. Scores were also evaluated according to the phase of the cycle. In eutopic as well as ectopic endometrium, no significant cyclic variations were observed throughout the cycle. However, VEGF content was found to be higher in the eutopic glandular epithelium of women with endometriosis during the late secretory phase, possibly suggesting a more likely tendency to implant. In contrast, significantly higher VEGF content was noted in red lesions as compared with black lesions. During all phases of the cycle, the VEGF content in stromal cells of red lesions was higher than in black lesions. Similarities in VEGF content were observed in the glandular epithelium of the eutopic endometrium of women with endometriosis and red lesions, suggesting that endometriosis probably arises from the peritoneal seeding of viable endometrial cells during retrograde menstruation and that red lesions can be considered as the first stage of implantation. After the attachment phase, the high VEGF levels could provoke an increase in the subperitoneal vascular network and facilitate implantation and viability in the retroperitoneal space. Lower VEGF levels in black lesions explain the decrease in both stromal vascularization, followed by fibrosis and inactivation of the implant.