Outcome of surgical treatment of chronic pancreatitis associated with sphincter of Oddi dysfunction. The clinical management of patients with chronic pancreatitis (CP) associated with sphincter of Oddi dysfunction (SOD) presents many challenges. The aim of this study was to evaluate patient outcome after surgical management of CP associated with SOD intractable to medical management. The records of patients with CP and SOD who underwent surgical treatment between 1994 and 1998 were retrospectively reviewed and analyzed. Manometry of biliary and pancreatic ducts was performed. Basal pressures were considered abnormal if > or = 40 mm Hg for at least 30 seconds. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, endoscopic ultrasound, and clinical criteria were utilized in the diagnosis of CP. Quality-of-life issues were assessed. Twenty-nine patients were identified (21 women and eight men) with a mean age of 43.3 years (range 24-54). Mean basal biliary and pancreatic sphincter pressures were 155.1 and 90.4 mm Hg respectively. Chronic pancreatitis was graded as mild in nine patients, moderate in six, severe in two, and normal or equivocal in 12 patients according to the Cambridge classification. A Whipple procedure was performed in 17 (59%) patients, lateral pancreaticojejunostomy in nine (31%), and distal resections or a combination of procedures in three (10%). The morbidity and mortality rates were 21 and 0 per cent respectively. Mean follow-up was 30 months (range 3-48). Pain relief ranging from fair to excellent was seen in 83 per cent of patients with pain scores decreasing from an average of 9 (scale 1-10) before surgery to 3 postoperatively. Seventy per cent maintained their weight, 45 per cent continued to require pancreatic enzyme supplementation, and there were no changes in the status of diabetes. Rehospitalizations for recurrent pancreatitis or persistent pain were necessary in 24 per cent of patients. Surgical management of patients with CP and SOD who fail medical management is safe and effective in most patients. Operative morbidity and mortality are low, and the majority of patients have improvement in pain, although some require rehospitalization for recurrent pancreatitis and chronic pain.