Aspiration biopsy, puncture and neurolysis of coeliac plexus with guided linear endoscopic ultrasonography--personal experience. Endoscopic ultrasonography, as relatively new diagnostic procedure, has made a significant progress in detection and presentation of small lesions of digestive tract, as well as in other organs. By introducing linear ultrasonography in clinical practice, the possibilities of this procedure became even more apparent, anabling even more precise diagnosis and various therapeutic procedures. With endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) guided aspiration biopsy it is possible to obtain samples in specific, well defined layer of gastrointestinal tract wall, and also from different parts of other organs and formations, which finaly enables establishing definite patohystologic diagnosis. First linear EUS procedure in this part of south-east Europe, was performed in University Clinical Center "Bezanijska Kosa" (N. Milinic, M. Petrovic) in 1999, and first EUS guided aspiration biopsy was performed on July 4th 2000 (N. Milinic--biopsy of pancreas). Using "Pentax" FG-36UX linear echo-endoscope, until now, 40 pancreas biopsies, 34 stomach biopsies, 9 biopsies of mediastinal lymph nodes, cysts and tumors, 22 biopsies of masses in retroperitoneal region, 7 biopsies of papilla Vateri, 4 biopsies of left suprarenal gland, 2 punctures of renal cysts, 14 biopsies of focal liver lesions, 2 punctures of liver cysts, and 5 neurolyses of coeliac plexus was performed. From 134 EUS guided biopsy samples, 114 was, according to pathologist, adequate for patohystologic evaluation, and in 96 cases obtained samples was essential for obtaining definite diagnosis. The major problem in this issue was a lack of well trained and expirienced cytologist, as also is the current problem in Western countires with more expirience and practice in this field. EUS guided aspiration biopsy, as the procedure itself, was successful in all cases. There were no major complications during the procedures, mainly because of using Colour-Doppler technique in defferentiating vascular from other structures. Results so far are showing that linear endoscopic ultrasonography is extremely precise diagnostic method, and should be used in establishing definite diagnosis in many well defined indications, and also is showing the consecutive need for specialy trained and expirienced citologists.