Noninsulinoma pancreatogenous hypoglycemia syndrome: quantitative and immunohistochemical analyses of islet cells for insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, and pancreatic and duodenal homeobox protein. To present a case of an elderly man with noninsulinoma pancreatogenous hypoglycemia syndrome (NIPHS) and to determine the pathogenesis of this syndrome.The pancreas of our patient with NIPHS was immunocytochemically stained for insulin-, glucagon-, and somatostatin-secreting cells and pancreatic and duodenal homeobox protein (PDX-1). The clinical findings and morphologic and immunocytochemical analyses of the islets of our patient are described, along with a review of related published reports.A 78-year-old man presented with hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia, with episodes unrelated to meals or fasting. An insulinoma could not be localized by preoperative imaging or by intraoperative ultrasonography or palpation. He underwent a 70% distal pancreatectomy. For assessment of the possibility that a nuclear transcription factor regulating islet beta-cell growth and development is overexpressed in this disease and is responsible for diffuse islet hyperfunction and proliferation of beta-cells, pancreatic sections from our patient were stained immunocytochemically for PDX-1, insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin. Morphologic findings were compared with pancreatic sections from normal control patients and normative data reported in the literature. Clinical findings and morphologic analyses were consistent with NIPHS. Islets were arranged in long clusters, both in the pancreatic tissue and in peripancreatic adipose tissue. Islets were small but increased in number, and insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin were present in the islets. The relative intensity of insulin staining was increased in our patient in comparison with that in the control patients, and PDX-1 was not overexpressed.The etiopathogenesis of NIPHS in this patient involved (1) an increased number of islets with development of ectopic islets in the peripancreatic adipose tissue (2) alpha- and delta- as well as beta-cell proliferation