Tumor-like lesion of the pancreas in chronic pancreatitis : imaging characteristics of computed tomography. The aim of this study was to describe the imaging findings for inflammatory pseudotumors in patients with chronic pancreatitis as detected in computed tomography (CT).In this retrospective study 20 patients with chronic pancreatitis were included, who underwent an abdominal CT scan. In all patients the diagnosis was confirmed by surgery and histopathology. Imaging findings which have previously been described as typical for chronic pancreatitis and for inflammatory pseudotumors were assessed by two radiologists in consensus. Values of tissue density (HU) at CT were measured within the lesions and in the surrounding pancreatic tissue.In 90% of patients with histologically proven chronic pancreatitis, CT showed corresponding indicative findings. In 10 patients the resected specimen revealed an inflammatory pseudotumor, which was located in all cases within the pancreatic head. Using CT these 10 patients presented with calcifications within the lesion in 50% of the cases, an irregular dilatation of the main pancreatic duct in 90%, a "double duct sign" in 70%, an interrupted main pancreatic duct in the area of the lesion in 50%, a "duct penetrating sign" in 30%, an infiltration of adjacent structures in 10% and pathologically enlarged lymph nodes in 100% of the cases. In the venous contrasting phase six tumors were hypodense and four isodense compared to the surrounding pancreatic tissue. In six patients biphasic CT was performed and the mean difference in attenuation between inflammatory pseudotumors and surrounding parenchyma was significantly higher in the pancreatic phase than in the venous phase.Differentiation between inflammatory pseudotumors and adenocarcinoma remains difficult or even impossible. Typical signs indicative of an adenocarcinoma of the pancreatic head, such as dilatation of the common bile duct and/or the main pancreatic duct as well as enlarged lymph nodes, were also found in patients with inflammatory pseudotumors. Inflammatory pseudotumors showed low contrast between lesions and parenchyma in the venous phase and calcifications within the solid part of the tumor.