Re-evaluation of the classical acupuncture concept of meridians in Oriental medicine by the new method of detecting meridian-like network connected to internal organs using "Bi-Digital O-Ring Test". "Bi-Digital O-Ring Test" has been successfully applied clinically as one of the simplest non-invasive, safe early diagnostic methods as well as localizing specific substances and neuro transmitters and tissues by the " 'Bi-Digital O-Ring Test' Molecular Identification and Localization Method". Using the method most of the internal organs it becomes possible to image the outline of most of the internal organs on most of the body surface without exposing the patient to undesirable radiation of X-Ray or strong magnetic field. While imaging outline of the internal organs the author found that from the surface of each organ, lines or networks of lines extending to the other parts of the body. Such a line closely resembled classically well known lines of meridians of major internal organs in Oriental medicine which author named meridian-like network of each internal organ. Each internal organ's meridian-like network usually can be imaged using microscopic slide of tissue or tissue itself. However, entire part of the small intestine meridian in the arm can also be imaged by heart tissue. For example "spleen meridian" has been considered to represent mainly pancreas of the western medical concept and this was also confirmed by the fact that using microscopic slide of pancreas or dessicated tissue of the pancreas well-known spleen meridian-like network can be imaged. The author also confirmed some of the description of the direction of the meridian and direction of the in reference to the direction of the insertion of the acupuncture needle. The width of the line of this meridian-like network was usually within one or two millimeters and one millimeter outside of the line do not have the same characteristics. This meridian-like network seems to be specialized channel which can propagate some type of information in electro-magnetic field to regulate some of the body functions throughout the body which is difficult to explain in current western medical anatomical concept.