The clinical challenge of multiple pancreatic pseudocysts. To evaluate the frequency of multiple pancreatic cysts, the likelihood of preoperative diagnosis, and therapeutic outcome, we retrospectively reviewed the records of 157 patients who underwent operation for pancreatic pseudocysts at 2 institutions between 1970 and 1992. Multiple pseudocysts were found in 29 (18.5%). The 8 women and 21 men ranged in age from 21 to 79 years. The etiology was alcohol abuse in 15 (52%), biliary tract disease in 6 (21%), alcohol abuse and biliary tract disease in 3 (10%), and a variety of other causes in the remaining 5 (17%). There was no difference in age, sex, race, etiology, or presenting signs and symptoms between patients with single pseudocysts and those with multiple cysts. Serum amylase levels were significantly higher in patients with multiple cysts compared to those with single cysts (P < 0.05). Computed tomography accurately demonstrated the extent of disease in 20 of 25 patients (80%), while 1 or more cysts were missed in 5 (20%). The mean number of cysts per patient was 2.7, with a range of 2 to 5. Average pseudocyst diameter was 7.8 cm, with a range from 3 to 20 cm. Multiple internal drainage procedures were performed in 19 patients, a combination of internal and external drainage in 6, external drainage in 1, and resection of multiple cysts in the tail in 2. There was no operative mortality. With a mean follow up of 38.5 months, only 1 recurrent pseudocyst has been found. There were six attempts at percutaneous drainage in six patients. Two of these patients were referred to our institution following failure of percutaneous drainage at other hospitals. Three other patients had residual symptomatic pseudocysts following percutaneous drainage at our hospitals and then underwent multiple internal drainage. The sixth patient refused operative drainage despite the persistence of residual symptomatic pseudocysts after attempted percutaneous drainage. The incidence of multiple pseudocysts (18.5%) is higher than previously reported. There is no difference in the clinical features of patients with single versus multiple pseudocysts. Patients with multiple cysts have higher serum amylase levels. Preoperative computed tomography underestimated the number of cysts in 20% of patients. Careful intraoperative exploration is still needed to avoid missing multiple pseudocysts. Internal drainage is the preferred therapy. A thorough search for multiple cysts at the initial operation should eliminate one potential cause for pseudocyst recurrence.