Diagnosis of acute pancreatitis: value of endoscopic sonography. The aim of this study is to assess the diagnostic usefulness of endoscopic sonography in acute pancreatitis.Twenty-three patients with clinically diagnosed acute pancreatitis (edematous pancreatitis in 16 and necrotizing pancreatitis with heterogeneous enhancement of the pancreas on contrast-enhanced CT scans in seven) prospectively underwent endoscopic sonography. We studied visualization of the pancreas and the extrahepatic bile duct, capability of differentiation between edematous and necrotizing pancreatitis, and detectability of common bile duct stones and compared the results of endoscopic sonography with those of conventional sonography, CT, and ERCP. In 25 normal subjects, we performed endoscopic sonography to determine the size of the pancreas.Endoscopic sonography could be performed at the bedside noninvasively and repeatedly. Normal pancreas size was defined from the results of normal subjects. Endoscopic sonography adequately showed the whole length of the pancreas and the extrahepatic bile duct in all cases. On endoscopic sonography, the pancreas was enlarged in 10 of 16 patients with edematous pancreatitis and in all seven patients with necrotizing pancreatitis. In edematous pancreatitis, the echogenicity of the pancreas was normal (four patients) or diffusely hypoechoic (12 patients). In all seven patients with necrotizing pancreatitis, endoscopic sonography showed a pancreatic focal hypoechoic mass with or without interspersed echogenic spots. Endoscopic sonography could differentiate edematous and necrotizing pancreatitis as well as CT could. Conventional sonography depicted the pancreas in only 61% of patients. Endoscopic sonography was highly sensitive in depicting inflammatory peripancreatic spread compared with CT. Endoscopic sonography was more sensitive (100%) than conventional sonography (43%) and CT (57%) for detecting bile duct stones in biliary pancreatitis.This study suggests that endoscopic sonography may be useful for the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis, particularly in cases of biliary pancreatitis.