The role of diagnostic laparoscopy in pancreatic and periampullary malignancies. The role of diagnostic laparoscopy before laparotomy in patients with pancreatic or periampullary malignancies remains controversial. We analyzed the value of using diagnostic laparoscopy to avoid laparotomy in these patients.Between November 1993 and December 1996, 254 patients with pancreatic or periampullary malignancies were treated. In 74 patients, multiple distant metastases precluded further surgical treatment. In all, 180 patients underwent laparotomy for pancreatic cancer (119 patients) or periampullary cancer (61 patients). Preoperatively, all patients underwent computed tomography for staging and to assess resectability of the tumor. Based on the results of the imaging procedure, the patients were scheduled for either tumor resection or a palliative operation.Twenty-one of 180 patients (12%) with pancreatic or periampullary malignancies were scheduled preoperatively for nonresectional operations because of distant metastasis or retroperitoneal tumor infiltration. In none of these patients was the operative strategy changed. In 159 of 180 patients (88%), a pancreatic resection was planned preoperatively 119 patients underwent pancreatic resection. In the remaining 40 patients preoperatively scheduled for tumor resection, removal of the tumor was not possible. In 24, this resulted from tumor infiltration into the retropancreatic vessels, and in 16 it resulted from liver or peritoneal metastasis detected for the first time intraoperatively. These 16 patients (10%) could have benefited from diagnostic laparoscopy. Similar results were found in the subgroup of 119 patients with pancreatic cancer, of whom 102 were planned for tumor resection and 17 for palliative operation. Of the 102 patients planned preoperatively for tumor resection, 71 patients (70%) underwent pancreatic resection. In the remaining 31 patients scheduled for tumor resection, removal of the tumor was not possible: in 17 because of tumor infiltration into the retropancreatic vessels and in 14 because of liver or peritoneal metastasis detected for the first time intraoperatively. These 14 patients (14%) also would have benefited from laparoscopy.Preoperative computed tomography is a reliable technique to detect tumor metastasis in patients with pancreatic or periampullary cancer. Unlike other investigators, we found that only 10% of patients with periampullary or pancreatic cancer and 14% of patients with pancreatic cancer might profit from laparoscopy. Because of this low number, laparoscopy cannot generally be recommended for patients with pancreatic or periampullary cancer before laparotomy.