Evaluation of scatter compensation methods by their effects on parameter estimation from SPECT projections. Three algorithms for scatter compensation in Tc-99m brain single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) were optimized and compared on the basis of the accuracy and precision with which lesion and background activity could be simultaneously estimated. These performance metrics are directly related to the clinically important tasks of activity quantitation and lesion detection, in contrast to measures based solely on the fidelity of image pixel values. The scatter compensation algorithms were (a) the Compton-window (CW) method with a 20% photopeak window, a 92-126 keV scatter window, and an optimized "k-factor," (b) the triple-energy window (TEW) method, with optimized widths of the photopeak window and the abutting scatter window, and (c) a general spectral (GS) method using seventeen 4 keV windows with optimized energy weights. Each method was optimized by minimizing the sum of the mean-squared errors (MSE) of the estimates of lesion and background activity concentrations. The accuracy and precision of activity estimates were then determined for lesions of different size, location, and contrast, as well as for a more complex Bayesian estimation task in which lesion size was also estimated. For the TEW and GS methods, parameters optimized for the estimation task differed significantly from those optimized for global normalized pixel MSE. For optimal estimation, the CW bias of activity estimates was larger and varied more (-2% to 22%) with lesion location and size than that of the other methods. The magnitude of the TEW bias was less than 7% across most conditions, although its precision was worse than that of CW estimates. The GS method performed best, with bias generally less than 4% and the lowest variance its root-mean square (rms) estimation error was within a few percent of that achievable from primary photons alone. For brain SPECT, estimation performance with an optimized, energy-based, subtractive correction may approach that of an ideal scatter-rejection procedure.