Peritoneal equilibrium test with hypertonic exchange: practical application in a peritoneal dialysis program. Peritoneal equilibration test (PET) employing a 2.27%/2.5% glucose exchange is the most widely used method of to evaluating peritoneal function and small solute transport. Hypertonic (3.86%/4.25% glucose) PET has been recently recommended for the evaluation of ultrafiltration and to study certain causes of ultrafiltration failure, such as aquaporin dysfunction, through the analysis of dialysate sodium. However, there is not enough information on the optimal way to express the changes in dialysate sodium concentration, the normal range of values for this parameter, and possible adverse effects of hypertonic PET in the general population of peritoneal dialysis patients. A hypertonic PET was performed in 22 patients. Ultrafiltration failure (ultrafiltration < 0.4 L) was present in seven patients. Patients with ultrafiltration failure had higher small solute peritoneal transport and dialysate sodium concentration and had been treated with peritoneal dialysis for longer periods of time. Dialysate sodium concentration at 60 and 240 minutes was directly correlated with small solute peritoneal transport calculated as D/PCr240 (r = 0.74, p = 0.0008 y r = 0.84, p < 0.0001) and inversely correlated with ultrafiltration (r = 0.64, p = 0.0016 y r = 0.72, p = 0.0002). An absence of a dip in dialysis sodium, suggestive of aquaporin dysfunction, was only observed in one patient with a high-average small solute peritoneal transport. Dialysate sodium concentration at 60 minutes is a better discriminator between ultrafiltration failure patients than parameters such as D/PNa or the absolute dip in dialysate sodium with respect to time zero. We observed the following adverse effects: symptomatic hypotension in 2 patients with preserved ultrafiltration. In conclusion, hypertonic PET allows to confirm the diagnosis of ultrafiltration failure, but monitoring dialysate sodium concentration offers additional information only in patients with severe aquaporin dysfunction. Hypertonic PET may have adverse effects in patients without ultrafiltration failure.