Influence of the molecular charge on the biodistribution of bombesin analogues labeled with the [99mTc(CO)3]-core. The overexpression of Bombesin (BBS) receptors on a variety of human cancers make them interesting targets for tumor imaging and therapy. Analogues of the neuropeptide BBS have been functionalized with the (NalphaHis)- chelator for labeling with the 99mTc-tricarbonyl core. The introduction of a betaAla-betaAla linker between the stabilized BBS binding sequence and the chelator led to increased tumor uptake but still rather unfavorable in ViVo properties. Novel polar linkers, with different charge, have been introduced in the molecule and tested for their influence on the biodistribution. The new analogues showed a shift in hydrophilicity from a Log D=0.9 to Log D values between 0.4 and -2.2. All compounds kept the increased stability in both human plasma (t(1/2)>16 h) and in tumor cells (t(1/2)=30-40 min). The compounds with Log D values between +1 and -1 showed the highest binding affinities with Kd values of <0.5 nM, as well as the highest cellular uptake. However, higher hydrophilicity (Log D < -1.8) led to lower affinity and a substantial decrease of internalization. The introduction of a positive charge (beta3hLys) resulted in unfavorable biodistribution, with increased kidney uptake. The introduction of an uncharged hydroxyl group (beta3hSer) improved the biodistribution, resulting in significantly better tumor-to-tissue ratios. The compound with one single negative charge (beta3hGlu) showed a significant increase in the tumor uptake (2.1+/-0.6% vs 0.80+/-0.35% ID/g in comparison to the betaAla-betaAla analogue) and also significantly higher tumor-to-tissue ratios. The specificity of the in ViVo uptake was confirmed by coinjection with natural BBS. Moreover, the analogue provided a much clearer image of the tumor xenografts in the SPECT/CT studies. The introduction of a single negative charge may be useful in the development of new BBS analogues to obtain an improved biodistribution profile, with increased tumor uptake and better imaging.