Diagnosis and surgical treatment of pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma. As a rare benign lung tumor, pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma (PSH) occurs predominantly in Asian women in their fifth and sixth decades of life. PSH is considered to be evolved from primitive undifferentiated respiratory epithelium. In this study, we summarized our experience in 89 cases of PSH.There were a total of 89 patients who received surgical resection and were histopathologically diagnosed as PSH during the period January 2001 to December 2010 in department of thoracic surgery, Cancer Institute and Hospital, Peking Union Medical College and Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences. The clinical data of these patients including symptoms, disease courses, image characteristics and surgical procedures were collected and reviewed retrospectively.The PSHs were most frequently (50.6%) found in the patients aged 41 to 60 years with a median age of 51 years (range: 24 - 71), and the sex ratio (male/female) was approximately 1:7 in this series. In the 89 patients, 53 (59.6%) were asymptomatic while the other 36 (40.4%) had some non-special symptoms such as cough (30.3%), hemoptysis (24.7%). There were only 3 cases (3.4%) with multiple PSHs, 4 cases (4.5%) combined with synchronous primary lung cancer, and 13 cases (14.6%) with lesions located in the hilar region. The median diameter of the 92 lesions was 2.3 cm (range: 0.3 - 6.0 cm), of which 38% located in the right lower lobe and 26.1% in the right middle lobe, and only about 1/3 were assumed as PSHs preoperatively based on CT imaging. One of the five patients who underwent PET-CT scan had been misdiagnosed as malignant. Of the 92 lesions, 47 were resected by enucleation, 29 by wedge resection, 14 by lobectomy, and 2 by pneumonectomy.PSH frequently occurs in the middle-aged women. Most individuals with PSH are asymptomatic or have some non-specific symptoms. Their lesions are usually found accidentally by chest imaging. Although PSH often shows typical imaging characteristics of benign neoplasm of the lung, it is difficult to establish a defined pathological diagnosis preoperatively. The significant error or deferred rate of intraoperative frozen-section evaluation for PSH may result in some unnecessarily extensive surgical procedures. The complete surgical resection is considered the only effective treatment for PSH, and the normal pulmonary tissue should be reserved as possible.