Neurotransplantation. III. Intracerebral grafting of fetal substantia nigra in Parkinson's disease. The paper reports the results of fetal substantia nigra transplantations into the brain of patients suffering from Parkinson's disease, performed in different neurosurgical centers in the world. Commonly accepted Ethical Guidelines for Fetal Tissue Transplantations are presented. The criteria regarding patients selection for therapeutic transplantation are also discussed. The results of studies concerning the problem of optimal fetal age for transplantations are presented. The optimal age seems to cover the period between the 7th gestational week when dopamine synthesis begins and the 11th week when protoplasmic processes start to grow intensively. The damage of these processes during transplantation procedure is thought to make the fetal cells survival difficult. The discussion concerning controversial problem of immunosuppression treatment after the neurotransplantation is also reported. The paper presents the principles of signs and symptoms assessment before and after operation including CAPIT system which emphasises the role of movement ability tests, PET-scanning with [18F]-6-L-fluorodopa and magnetic resonance imaging. The PET-scanning allows to follow up the changes in patient's brain resulting from the graft survival and its dopamine synthesis ability. The methods of donor woman examination to avoid the transmission of infections into the patient's brain are reviewed. The analysis of yet published results of about 100 operated on parkinsonian patients show marked improvement due to human fetal substantia nigra transplantation. The improvement lasts, at least 46 months postoperatively (the longest period of observation). Many of the grafted patients returned to normal self-dependent living activities and some of them resumed even their professional jobs. Most authors present the opinion that the therapeutic effects of fetal substantia nigra transplantations are more valuable and longer lasting than those after adrenal medulla autografts. However it should be borne in mind that both methods are yet only the experimental approach in Parkinson's disease therapy.