Kinetic evaluation of positron-emitting muscarinic receptor ligands employing direct intracarotid injection. The development and characterization of new receptor ligands for in vivo binding assays are often both lengthy and expensive. It is therefore desirable to predict the suitability of a ligand early in the process of its evaluation. In the present study, compartmental analysis following intracarotid ligand injection in the monkey is used to evaluate the in vivo kinetics of the muscarinic cholinergic receptor antagonists [11C]tropanyl benzilate ([11C]TRB) and [11C]N-methylpiperidyl benzilate ([11C]NMPB). Animals were implanted with chronic subcutaneous access ports and indwelling catheters with tips located in the common carotid artery, just proximal to its bifurcation. The external carotid artery was ligated to ensure selective tracer delivery through the internal carotid artery to the brain. Positron emission tomography was used to measure brain tissue time-activity curves following tracer injections. CBF was estimated from the clearance of [15O]H2O, and receptor ligand distributions were analyzed according to a physiologic model consisting of an intravascular compartment and nonspecific plus free and receptor-bound tissue ligand compartments. In [11C]TRB studies, marked reductions in the forward ligand-receptor binding rate and in both the total and the specific binding tissue-to-plasma volumes of ligand distribution were observed after scopolamine receptor blockade or with low administered specific activity. Conversely, neither the distribution volume of the nonspecific plus free ligand compartment nor the rate of ligand dissociation from receptor sites was affected. In [11C]NMPB studies, tissue compartments describing specific binding and nonsaturable components could not be reliably separated. The receptor-related term in this case, the total tissue-to-plasma distribution volume, demonstrated reduction after low specific activity ligand injection. Comparison of the two ligands suggests that NMPB interacts more rapidly with the receptors and has a lower apparent volume of distribution than does TRB. Thus, NMPB may be the more suitable ligand if accurate estimates of binding dissociation rate are limited by temporal constraints or if simplified, one-tissue-compartment analyses are used. The carotid injection method appears promising for the initial evaluation of ligand kinetics, permitting physiologic compartmental analyses without measurement of input functions or chromatography of blood samples.