Dynamic cortical involvement in implicit and explicit motor sequence learning. A PET study. We examined the dynamic involvement of different brain regions in implicit and explicit motor sequence learning using PET. In a serial reaction time task, subjects pressed each of four buttons with a different finger of the right hand in response to a visually presented number. Test sessions consisted of 10 cycles of the same 10-item sequence. The effects of explicit and implicit learning were assessed separately using a different behavioural parameter for each type of learning: correct recall of the test sequence for explicit learning and improvement of reaction time before the successful recall of any component of the test sequence for implicit learning. Regional cerebral blood flow was measured repeatedly during the task, and a parametric analysis was performed to identify brain regions in which activity was significantly correlated with subjects' performances: i.e. with correct recall of the test sequence or with reaction time. Explicit learning, shown as a positive correlation with the correct recall of the sequence, was associated with increased activity in the posterior parietal cortex, precuneus and premotor cortex bilaterally, also in the supplementary motor area (SMA) predominantly in the left anterior part, left thalamus, and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. In contrast, the reaction time showed a different pattern of correlation during different learning phases. During the implicit learning phase, when the subjects were not aware of the sequence, improvement of the reaction time was associated with increased activity in the contralateral primary sensorimotor cortex (SM1). During the explicit learning phase, the reaction time was significantly correlated with activity in a part of the frontoparietal network. During the post-learning phase, when the subjects achieved all components of the sequence explicitly, the reaction time was correlated with the activity in the ipsilateral SM1 and posterior part of the SMA. These results show that different sets of cortical regions are dynamically involved in implicit and explicit motor sequence learning.