<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>1992-11-30</DATELINE><TITLE>Animal immunodeficiency viruses</TITLE><BODY>Abstract Feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) has morphological, physical and biochemical characteristics similar to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the cause of AIDS in man. However, it is antigenically and genetically distinct from HIV; an antigenic relatedness with equine infectious anaemia virus has been demonstrated. FIV has been molecularly cloned and sequenced. Diagnostic tests are commercially available and attempts at preparing inactivated, subunit and molecularly engineered vaccines are being made in different laboratories. During FIV infection a transient primary illness can be recognized, with fever, neutropenia and lymphadenopathy. After a long period of clinical normalcy a secondary stage is distinguished with signs of an immunodeficiency-like syndrome. The incubation period for this stage can be as long as 5 years, during which gradual impairment of immune function develops. Many FIV-infected cats are presented for the first time showing vague signs of illness: recurrent fevers, emaciation, lack of appetite, lymphadenopathy, anaemia, leucopenia and behavioural changes. Later, the predominant clinical signs observed are chronic stomatitis/gingivitis, enteritis, upper respiratory tract infections, and infections of the skin. Neoplasias, neurological, immunological and haematological disorder are seen in a smaller proportion. The immunodeficiency-like syndrome is progressive over a period of months to years. Concomitant infection with feline leukaemia virus has been shown to accelarate the progression of disease. In vitro, phenotypic mixing between FIV and an endogenous feline oncovirus (RD114) has been demonstrated which leads to a broadening of the cell spectrum of the lentivirus. Bovine immunodeficiency virus (BIV) has been isolated only once, and all attempts to obtain additional isolates have failed; it has been recovered from the leucocytes of cattle with persistent lymphocytosis, lymphadenopathy, lesions in the central nervous system, progressive weakness and emaciation. As with the feline representative, BIV also was found to possess a lentivirus morphology and to encode a reverse transcriptase with Mg++ preference; it replicates and induces syncytia in a variety of embryonic bovine tissues in vitro. Antigenic analyses have demonstrated a conservation of epitopes between the major core protein of BIV and HIV. The original isolate has been molecularly cloned and sequenced. Besides the three large open reading frames (ORFs) comprising the gag, pol, and env genes common to all replication-competent retroviruses, five additional small ORFs were found. Numerous point mutations and deletions were found, mostly in the env-encoding ORF. These data suggest that, within a single virus isolate, BIV displays extensive genomic variation. When random cattle sera from the Netherlands were tested by indirect immunofluorescence, Western blot and/or radio-immunoprecipitation, 0.7% appeared seropositive; thus BIV infection is not uncommon in one European cattle population.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>