<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2020-03-01</DATELINE><TITLE>Editorial 58(1)</TITLE><BODY>As I write, the world is gripped by news of a novel coronavirus sweeping across the planet. The epidemic is causing terrible anguish to many thousands of families and astounding economic damage in Asia. Whilst yet unconfirmed, several research results now point at the hunting, trade and consumption of pangolins as a likely source of the epidemic. Whether or not pangolins do finally prove to be at the origin of this particular virus, the research highlights that the possibility is very real. This may turn out to be a turning point for pangolin conservation, perhaps for the conservation of a great many other species. In 2015, the IUCN Species Survival Commission Pangolin Specialist Group reported concerns that the profound decline in Asian pangolins would lead to traffickers procuring supplies from Africa. The next five years saw their predictions largely fulfilled. Robust results from a range of research approaches showed first an increase in trade and value of pangolins within the West and central Africa and, more recently, growing international trafficking, with China and Vietnam as major destinations. In 2016, the CITES 17th Conference of Parties moved all African pangolin species onto Appendix 1. Not a single research paper published on pangolins in the past 5 years has suggested anything other than desperate jeopardy for all eight of the world’s species. All available researches point to increasing harvesting, with the rise ultimately driven by trade for profit. The plight of over‐hunted pangolins has become a rallying call for conservation over the past few years. New NGO and government funding initiatives have arisen, dedicated to research for their conservation. The dramatically steep decline of the Asian species has been written about in both Science and Nature, the most widely read scientific journals of the day, in the last few years. The pangolin, alongside the elephant, is a poster species for action against the illegal wildlife trade. However, the research community’s awareness of the impending doom has not in the least stemmed the trade. This issue contains a Short Communication reporting for the first time trade in pangolins in yet another country, South Sudan. I am unsure of what the public response to the possibility that pangolins can transmit deadly viruses will be. I hope it is to leave them alone, rather than to try to eradicate them. This Journal remains committed to improving knowledge of the African ecosystems and increasingly to reporting research that shows how they are changing in the face of our actions. This issue, as each issue, makes a new and relevant contribution to that objective.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>