Combination therapy of percutaneous mitoxantrone injection, percutaneous ethanol injection, and transcatheter arterial embolization for intrahepatic hepatocellular carcinoma and adrenal metastasis. We treated a 63-year-old man who had recurrent large hepatocellular carcinomas (> 5 cm in diameter) and left adrenal metastasis with the combination approach of percutaneous intratumoral chemotherapy with mitoxantrone, percutaneous ethanol injection, and transcatheter arterial embolization. He received repeated transcatheter arterial embolization and percutaneous ethanol injection combination therapy for intrahepatic hepatocellular carcinomas, which controlled his disease for 6 months from the first treatment. After that, left adrenal metastasis was detected by biopsy specimen. Therefore, we repeated more transcatheter arterial embolization and percutaneous ethanol injection to the liver and left adrenal gland, but this combination therapy could not control the hepatocellular carcinomas in these organs. With the patient's consent, he was treated with the combination approach of percutaneous intratumoral chemotherapy with mitoxantrone, percutaneous ethanol injection, and transcatheter arterial embolization for hepatocellular carcinomas of the liver and left adrenal gland. After this combination therapy, we followed-up the viable lesions by color Doppler ultrasonography and computed tomography examination. However, we could not detect these viable lesions of hepatocellular carcinomas in his body until one month before he died. When the degree of hepatic failure worsened due to the natural course of cirrhosis, this combination therapy was stopped 7 months before he died. He died of pulmonary tumor emboli from metastasis of inferior vena cava 24 months after the combination therapy started. However, on autopsy there was almost no remaining hepatocellular carcinoma found in the main lesions of liver and left adrenal gland. We suggest that a combination approach of percutaneous intratumoral chemotherapy with mitoxantrone, percutaneous ethanol injection, and transcatheter arterial embolization may be indicated in elderly cases of intrahepatic large hepatocellular carcinoma and adrenal metastasis, which are not under control only by transcatheter arterial embolization and percutaneous ethanol injection.