Color Doppler ultrasound detection and classification of the tangential hepatic vein before laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Unexpected fatal bleeding from the gallbladder bed during laparoscopic cholecystectomy is often associated with injury to the middle hepatic vein. This paper studies whether preoperative color Doppler ultrasound is effective in reducing the risk of injury. Also a venous classification is suggested.Between June 1999 and February 2004, 2,146 patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy by standard method received preoperative color Doppler ultrasound examinations. The closest distance between the hepatic vein and the gallbladder was studied. Also, cases of liver cirrhosis, number of conversions to open cholecystectomy, intraoperative blood loss, operative time, complications, and hospital stay were recorded (group D). At the end of the study, we retrospectively reviewed the same parameter of another 2,146 patients who received laparoscopic cholecystectomy without preoperative color Doppler ultrasound between the period of March 1995 and June 1999 (group ND).In group D, 108 patients had cirrhosis. Four hundred and ninety-six patients (27 cases of cirrhosis) had a closest distance of 1 mm or less between the vein and the gallbladder. There were two conversions to open cholecystectomy, but none related to gallbladder bed bleeding. In group ND, there were five conversions, including four cases of gallbladder bed bleeding from the middle hepatic vein and one case of severe adhesion. The conversion rate was significantly higher. In group ND, the mean intraoperative blood loss in the cases of liver cirrhosis was significantly greater. Also, the operative time of patients with the closest vein and gallbladder distance of 1 mm or less in group D was significantly longer.Color Doppler ultrasound is an effective method for detecting the presence of potential bleeders. Although the operative time will be a bit longer, the operation can be done under meticulous care and complete preparation, so that the conversion rate and the risk of fatal hemorrhage can be reduced, especially in patients with liver cirrhosis.