Common occurrence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and cholecystolithiasis. Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease is an acquired metabolic disease of the liver caused by accumulation of triglycerides in hepatocytes that is followed by necrobiotic inflammatory reaction, fibrosis and cirrhosis. Obesity, insulin resistance, diabetes mellitus and hyperlipidaemia are important pathogenetic factors of the process. It is known that among patients with cholecystolithiasis and diabetes mellitus in their anamnesis complications of cholecystolithiasis occur much more frequently like among patients without diabetes.The aim of the study is observation of the incidence of cholecystolithiasis and its complications in patients with Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease and comparison of cholecystolithiasis incidence between healthy population and population with Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.Abdominal ultrasonographical findings were analysed in patients hospitalised at our department and in outpatients, patients with severe accompanied diseases were excluded of the analysis. The analysed basic file of patients could be considered as a selected file. The independence of the two examined variables was measured by chi(2) test.Steatosis was described in 38% of the examined patients, cholecystolithiasis was described in 16% of patients. Cholecystolithiasis and its complications occur two times more frequently in patients with Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (33%) like Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in patients with cholecystolithiasis (16%). Complications of cholecystolithiasis occur more frequently among patients with Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease like in healthy individuals. The chi(2) test did not bring significant results concerning the independence of cholecystolithiasis and Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.Pathogenetic factors of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease participate in the pathogenesis of cholecystolithiasis. Their common pathogenetic factors bring about that the formation of cholecystolithiasis is probably faster than the progression of steatosis.