Noninvasive measurement of liver fibrosis by transient elastography and influencing factors in patients with chronic hepatitis B-A single center retrospective study of 466 patients. The noninvasive measurement of liver stiffness (LS) was evaluated by transient elastography (FibroScan) and the possible influencing factors from the patients' clinical situations including age, gender, liver inflammation represented by alanine transaminase (ALT) and total billirubin (TBIL) level, HBV replication (HBV DNA loads), portal vein pressure (portal vessel diameter, PVD), splenic thickness (SPT) and body mass index (BMI) were analyzed in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). A total of 466 patients including 31 patients with acute-on-chronic liver failure (ACLF), and 435 patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) among which 82 patients were diagnosed with liver cirrhosis (LC) by clinical manifestations and liver B-type ultrasonic inspection were enrolled at Tongji Hospital from April to December 2009. LS was measured by a FibroScan device (EchoSens, France). Simultaneously, ALT and TBIL levels, HBV DNA loads, PVD, SPT and BMI in all patients were also tested. Forty-one healthy volunteers served as controls. The values of LS were correlated positively with ages of CHB patients and significantly higher in males than in females. In patients with BMI>28 kg/m(2) (obesity) and abnormal levels of ALT and TBIL, LS values were significantly increased as compared with those having normal levels of ALT and TBIL. The patients with ACLF had the highest LS value. Furthermore, LS values in the patients with LC were significantly higher than those in patients without LC. It is concluded that noninvasive measurement of liver fibrosis by FibroScan provides an alternative method to evaluate liver fibrosis of patients with CHB. In order to properly illustrate the stiffness value taken by transient elastography, patients' gender should be taken into consideration and it is also suggested to avoid possible influencing factors including liver inflammation (high levels of ALT and TBIL) and obesity (high BMI).