Investigation on traditional Chinese medicine syndrome distribution of 4 618 hepatitis B virus infection subjects in Qidong of Jiangsu Province, China. To study the traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) syndrome distribution in patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in Qidong region of Jiangsu Province, China.A cross-sectional survey was performed. Subjects from Qidong of Jiangsu Province of China were screened among the locally enrolled residents by detecting hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) from May 2007 to May 2011 and were assigned to HBsAg-negative cohort or HBsAg-positive cohort. Then, the subjects were diagnosed according to alanine aminotransferase, alpha-fetoprotein and B ultrasound. The syndrome of the subjects was determined using a TCM questionnaire consisting of signs and symptoms.A total of 5 908 subjects were enrolled in this survey, among whom, 4 718 were diagnosed with HbsAg infection (positive result of HbsAg detection) and 1 147 were negative. 143 subjects were excluded for not receiving the blood examination. The final diagnoses of the subjects were non-HBV infection (n=1128), HBV carrier (n=4019), chronic hepatitis B (n=225), posthepatitic cirrhosis (n=263) or liver cancer (n=111). The TCM syndrome differentiation results showed that there were differences in syndrome distribution between HBV-infected and non-HBV-infected patients. The main syndromes of the HBV-infected patients were qi deficiency, qi stagnation, blood stasis and dampness heat, related to the Zang of liver and spleen. The distribution principles of TCM syndrome among patients of HBV carrier, chronic hepatitis B and cirrhosis were similar. Moreover, with the progression of the patients' condition, the scores of syndromes increased, and the number of accompanying syndromes increased as well. The main syndromes of patients with liver cancer were blood stasis and excess heat, which was slightly different from that of the other HBV-infected patients.The TCM syndrome distribution in patients of HBV infection in Qidong region of Jiangsu Province shows regularity. The disorder is mainly due to qi stagnation and blood stasis and is also related to deficiency of healthy qi, especially deficiency of spleen qi.