Intervention of chronic hepatitis B liver fibrosis patients in different stages by syndrome typing and different activating blood removing stasis methods: a clinical study. To observe the clinical efficacy of treating chronic hepatitis B liver fibrosis (CHBLF) in different stages by syndrome typing and different activating blood removing stasis methods (ABRSM).Totally 100 CHBLF patients of vital qi deficiency blood stasis syndrome (VQDBSS) treated at the Department of Liver Diseases, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences from July 2008 to December 2011, were randomly assigned to the treatment group and the control group, 50 in each group. Those in the treatment group were treated by self-formulated decoctions for activating blood nourishing blood (ABNB), activating blood removing stasis (ABRS), and activating blood softening hard mass (ABSHM) according to their stages of disease conditions (mild, moderate, and severe). Those in the control group were treated with Compound Biejia Ruangan Tablet (CBRT). Integrals of Chinese medical syndromes, liver functions [mainly including alanine aminotransferase (ALT), albumin/globulin (A/ G)], ultrasonographic examinations of liver (mainly including echoes of liver, width of spleens, width of portal vein), four indicators of serum hepatic fibrosis [including serum hyaluronic acid (HA), laminin (LN), type IV collagen (IV-C), type III collagen peptide (P-III-P)] were statistically analyzed. The therapeutic course was 6 months for all.Compared with before treatment in the same group, the integrals of Chinese medical syndromes both decreased after treatment in the two groups (P < 0.05). The width of spleens decreased in the treatment group more obviously after treatment than before treatment (P < 0.05). Compared with the control group, the integrals of Chinese medical syndromes and the width of spleens were more obviously improved in the treatment group, showing statistical difference (P < 0.05). Compared with before treatment in the same group, levels of ALT, HA, and LN significantly decreased, and the level of A/G significantly increased after treatment in the two groups, showing statistical difference (P < 0.05). Compared with the control group, the A/G level, HA, and LN were more obviously improved in the treatment group, showing statistical difference (P < 0.05). The total effective rate was 76% in the treatment group and 46% in the control group, showing statistical difference (P < 0.05).Treating CH-BLF in different stages by ABRSM got better effect than using CBRT alone. It could favorably improve clinical symptoms of CHBLF patients and their serum biochemical indicators.