<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2020-03-03</DATELINE><TITLE>Systematic Review of the Registered Clinical Trials of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)</TITLE><BODY>Background: Since the outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), many researchers in China have immediately carried out clinical research scheme of the COVID-19. But, there is still a lack of systematic review of registered clinical trials. Therefore, we conducted a systematic review of the clinical trials of COVID-19 to summarize the characteristics of the COVID-19 registered clinical trials. Methods: This study is based on the recommendations of the PRISMA in the Cochrane handbook. The databases from the Chinese Clinical Registration Center and the ClinicalTrials.gov were searched to collect the registered clinical trials of COVID-19. The retrieval inception date is February 9, 2020. Two researchers independently selected the literature based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, extracted data and evaluated the risk of bias. Results: A total of 75 registered clinical trials (63 interventional studies and 12 observational studies) of COVID-19 were obtained. A majority of clinical trials were sponsored by Chinese hospitals. Only 11 trials have begun to recruit patients, and none of the registered clinical trials had been completed; 34 trials were early clinical exploratory trials or in a pre-experiment stage, 15 trials belonged to phrase Ⅲ and 4 trials were phrase Ⅳ. The methods of intervention included traditional Chinese medicine involving 26 trials, Western medicine involving 30 trials, and integrated traditional Chinese medicine and Western medicine involving 19 trials. The subjects were mainly non-critical adult patients (≥ 18 years old). The median sample size of the trials was 100 (IQR: 60 - 200), and the median execute time of the trials was 179 d (IQR: 94 - 366 d). The main outcomes were clinical observation and examinations. Overall, both the methodology quality of interventional trials and observational studies were low. Conclusions: Disorderly and intensive clinical trials of COVID-19 using traditional Chinese medicine and western medicine are ongoing or will being carried out in China. However, based on the low methodology quality and small sample size and long studies execute time, we will not be able to obtain reliable, high-quality clinical evidence about COVID-19 treatment in the near future. Improving the quality of study design, prioritizing promising drugs, and using different designs and statistical methods are worth advocating and recommending for the clinical trials of COVID-19 in China.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>