The significance of stress-induced ST segment depression in patients with inferior Q wave myocardial infarction. This study was conducted to evaluate the relationship between ST segment depression (STD) during dobutamine stress tests in different electrocardiogram (ECG) leads and myocardial ischemia assessed by simultaneous single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging in patients with inferior Q wave myocardial infarction.STD is a standard electrocardiographic sign of myocardial ischemia. Although STD may represent reciprocal changes in patients with previous myocardial infarction, studies of reciprocal changes during stress tests are scarce.Dobutamine (up to 40 microg/kg/min) stress and rest myocardial perfusion scintigraphy using technetium SPECT imaging was performed in 125 patients >3 months after Q wave inferior myocardial infarction. The location of STD at the ECG was defined as anterior (V1-4), high lateral (I, aVL) and lateral (V5,6). Ischemia was defined as reversible perfusion abnormalities.STD occurred in the high lateral leads in 20 patients, in the anterior leads in 12 patients and in the lateral leads in 2 patients. ST segment elevation occurred in 25 patients in the inferior leads. High lateral STD was associated with inferior ST elevation in 16 patients (80%). There was a significant inverse linear correlation between the magnitude of ST segment shift from rest to peak stress in the inferior and the high lateral leads (r = -0.8, p < 0.0005), whereas no significant correlation was found between ST segment shift in the inferior and the anterior leads (r = -0.1, p = NS) or between the inferior and the lateral leads (r = 0.15, p = NS). Ischemia was detected in 45% of patients with and in 42% of patients without high lateral STD (p = NS). Patients with high lateral STD had a higher prevalence of fixed perfusion defects in the inferior wall (100% vs. 70%) and in the posterolateral wall (55% vs. 29%) compared with other patients (both p < 0.05). Ischemia was more prevalent in patients with anterior STD than without (75% vs. 39%, p < 0.05).In patients with inferior Q wave myocardial infarction, stress-induced STD in high lateral leads should be recognized as a reciprocal change for ST elevation in the inferior leads, and therefore, should be interpreted with the consideration of the significance of ST elevation if present, rather than being indicative of myocardial ischemia on its own. The STD found in the anterior leads appears to be a sign of myocardial ischemia. These findings should be considered in the definition of a positive ECG stress test and in establishing the criteria for the termination of stress test.