Investigation on zoonosis by disseminating questionnaire to members of medical associations in Kobe and Fukuoka. With the purpose of studying the involvement of physicians to zoonosis, investigation on the consciousness was performed by disseminating a questionnaire to members of Medical Associations of Kobe City (2,584 members) and Fukuoka City (1,814 members). From the members in Kobe, 1,165 replies were collected (answer ratio: 45.1%) and 774 replies from the members in Fukuoka (answer ratio: 42.7%). About 70-80% of all physicians answering the questionnaire stated that they had examined the patients with infectious diseases at a ratio of less than 10% to a total of patients examined. Among them, 70% of the doctors had asked the patients as to whether or not the patients were keeping pet animals or had traveled overseas recently when infectious diseases was suspected. There were 738 doctors (38.1%) (1,355 cases), who had suspected or made definitive diagnosis on 15 diseases of zoonosis as stipulated in the new Infectious Disease Control Law for the recent 5 years. In all, 365 doctors (18.9%) examined the patients who were suspected to have had an infection from pet animals. The causative animals primarily included dogs, cats, and birds such as parakeet, while monkeys, tortoises, etc. were found in several cases. About one half of the physicians felt that the cases of infectious diseases and zoonosis would increase in the future. In the entry of free opinions relating to the effective measures for the prevention of zoonosis, 712 physicians (39.8%) entered 1,050 proposals. The details of these proposals were: 444 proposals on "administrative measures". 244 on the need of "education" to citizens, and 201 on the importance of "medical management". About 80% of the physicians replied that they would cooperate for the secondary investigation. It appears that the physicians place much expectation on adequate measures against zoonosis. Namely, they expect much on the establishment of a reliable network, i.e. the network of administrative authorities--physicians--veterinarians--pet animal suppliers--pet animal keepers.