Spacer site modifications for the improvement of the in vitro and in vivo binding properties of (99m)Tc-N(3)S-X-bombesin[2-14] derivatives. It has been shown that gastrin releasing peptide receptors (GRPRs) are overexpressed in various types of cancer cells. Bombesin is an analogue of the mammalian GRP that binds with high specificity and affinity to GRPRs. Significant research efforts have been lately devoted to the design of radiolabeled 8 or 14 aminoacid bombesin (BN) peptides for the detection (either with gamma or positron emitting radionuclides) and therapy (with beta(-) emitting radionuclides) of cancer. The specific aim of the present study was to further investigate the radiolabeled peptide structure and to determine whether the total absence of a linker or the use of a basic diverse amino acid linker could influence the biodistribution profile of the new compounds for specific targeting of human prostate cancer. Thus, two new derivatives with the structure Gly-Gly-Cys-X-BN[2-14], where linker X is either zero (I) or Orn-Orn-Orn (Orn: ornithine) (II) were designed and synthesized. The corresponding (99m)Tc-BN derivatives were obtained with high radiochemical yield (>98%) and had almost identical retention times in RP-HPLC with the (185/187)Re complexes, which were also characterized by ESI-MS. Metabolic stability was found to be high in human plasma, moderate in PC-3 cells, and rather low in mouse liver and kidney homogenates for both BN derivatives studied. The BN derivative without the spacer was less stable in cell culture and liver homogenates. A satisfactory binding affinity to GRPRs, in the nanomolar range, was obtained for both BN derivatives as well as for their Re complexes, with BN (II) demonstrating the highest one. In vitro internalization/externalization assays indicated that approximately 6% of BN (I) and approximately 25% of BN (II) were internalized into PC-3 cells. In vivo evaluation in normal Swiss mice and in tumor bearing SCID mice showed that BN (II) presented higher tumor and pancreas uptake than BN (I). Small animal SPECT dynamic imaging, carried out after an injection of BN (II) in mice bearing PC-3 tumors, resulted in PC-3 tumor delineation with low background activity. Overall, this study performed for two new N(3)S-X-BN[2-14] derivatives indicated that hydrophilicity and charge strongly affected the in vitro and in vivo binding properties and the biodistribution pattern. This finding is confirmed by SPECT imaging of BN (II), which is under further in vivo evaluation for detecting cancer-positive GRPRs.