Role of surgery in a multidisciplinary approach to superior sulcus tumors (SST): morbidity and prognostic factors for long-term success after resection. Optimal management of SST is still controversial several years after the proposal of a multidisciplinary approach including neoadjuvant chemotherapy and external radiation. Our objective is to report our experience of this multidisciplinary approach from the surgical point of view.From January 1997 to January 2008, 24 patients were treated surgically (18 with induction chemotherapy and 15 with radiotherapy). The surgical approach was thoracic (14 cases, 1 with a spinal approach) or cervical (10 patients, 2 thoracotomies). Pulmonary surgery performed consisted of 11 wedge resections, 10 lobectomies, 1 pneumonectomy and 2 cases without lung resection (1 exploratory thoracotomy and 1 local progression after a previously resected tumor). Intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT) was given in 7 cases. Partial vertebral body resection was performed in 5 cases. A pathologically complete response (pT0) was found in 7 cases (29 %).Surgery-related morbidity was mainly due to respiratory distress (5 patients). Two patients died in the first month after surgery (mortality: 8 %). The surgical approach (cervical vs. thoracic) did not influence postoperative morbidity ( p = NS). Overall 5-year survival was 56.6 % according to the Kaplan-Meier method. No influence on survival was observed with regard to the approach (cervical vs. thoracic), the use of IORT, or the performance of spinal surgery. Patients with a complete pathological response had a better 5-year survival, but this did not reach statistical significance.Surgery has a role in the multidisciplinary approach, especially when we consider long-term survival. A multidisciplinary approach using neoadjuvant chemo and radiotherapy has a high rate of complete pathological response. It is also associated with a high incidence of postoperative distress syndrome. The 5-year survival is acceptable.