Radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies in the diagnosis and treatment of malignant melanoma. The use of antibodies directed against tumors has found increasing usefulness after the discovery by Kohler and Milstein of hybridoma technology, which made it possible to obtain monoclonal antibody (MoAb) that reacted specifically against a particular epitope on a particular antigen site. Relative tumor specificity and a lack of significant toxicity, together with the ability to link radionuclides (both halogens and metals) without significant deterioration of biologic behavioral characteristics such as immunoreactivity, have enabled widespread use of radiolabeled MoAbs in several malignancies, including and especially malignant melanoma. There is a significant body of data indicating that radiolabeled MoAbs directed against melanoma-associated antigens have an important role in the detection and therapy of metastatic malignant melanoma. Detection of visceral disease, while currently suboptimal, will in the future improve with optimization of SPECT imaging using 99mTc-labeled MoAb Fab fragments. This may result in an attenuated or absent antimouse response, especially after one injection, unless of course coinfused with either specific and/or nonspecific intact immunoglobulin (Ig). Radiolabeled fragments play an important role in radioimmunotherapy in metastatic melanoma. This role may be enhanced by the development of newer chelating agents that will decrease nonspecific hepatic uptake of radionuclide, enabling the use of beta-emitting radiometals such as 90Y. The recent report demonstrating diminished hepatic uptake of 99mTc-labeled anti-high molecular weight antigen (HMWA) Fab shows promise, since the same labeling technique can be used to deliver radiotherapeutic agents such as 186Re, which may be labeled to MoAb with methods similar to those used for 99mTc. Creation of single-chain MoAb determinants, chimera, and human MoAb will obviate the human immune response to foreign proteins that are currently in use and enable multiple administrations of tumor-toxic quantities of radiolabeled MoAbs.