Correction measured by attenuation in tomographic heart studies with single photon emission with thallium 201. Comparison with positron- emission tomographic studies with ammonium marked with nitrogen. We investigated 201Tl myocardial uptake with(out) nonuniform attenuation compensation in ischemic myocardiopathy patients. The segmental patterns of the two types of SPECT images were compared with PET [13N]NH3 studies performed in the same patient. PET images were taken as reference and the diagnostic accuracy of SPECT with(out) attenuation correction was evaluated.During the SPECT study transmission and emission data were simultaneously recorded by a triple head gamma camera equipped with fan beam collimators and a 99mTc transmission line source (740MBq). SPECT and PET images, the former reconstructed with(out) attenuation correction, were corecorded and reoriented along the short axis. The left ventricular wall was divided into 11 segments and segmental activity normalized to maximum in each study.Statistically significant differences were found between PET/(un)corrected SPECT ratios in posterior and septal segments. In these myocardial regions, attenuation correction compensates for attenuation artifacts, by correcting the underestimation of radioactivity concentration caused by radiation absorption. A statistically significant difference was also found in midventricular anterior and apical segments (p < .05). However, in these regions attenuation correction results in a decrease in corrected relative to uncorrected SPECT activity. The agreement rate with PET data is higher for corrected SPECT (mean differences were 3.12 +/- 11.51 and 2.19 +/- 8.63 for uncorrected versus corrected SPET). We had 50% positive and 77% negative predictive value without attenuation correction, versus up to 69% and 90%, respectively, with attenuation correction.The attenuation correction procedure with simultaneous transmission-emission effectively reduces attenuation artifacts in SPECT myocardial imaging. While diagnostic accuracy increases in posterior and septal myocardial regions, anterior and apical data need careful interpretation because a relative decrease in radioactivity concentration can be observed after attenuation correction.