The role of 99Tcm-sestamibi scintigraphy in the staging and prediction of the therapeutic response of stage IV neuroblastoma: comparison with 131I-MIBG and 99Tcm-MDP scintigraphy. In this study, we investigated prospectively the diagnostic role of 99Tcm-MIBI for staging and for predicting the therapeutic response of stage IV neuroblastoma compared with 131I-MIBG imaging and 99Tcm-MDP bone scintigraphy. Nine patients (4 girls and 5 boys aged 1-7 years) with suspected or proven stage IV neuroblastoma were studied with 99Tcm-MIBI at initial diagnosis and after 12-18 months of multidrug therapy. After the injection of 80 MBq.kg-1 99Tcm-MIBI, early (10 min) and delayed (1 h) images were obtained. The data were correlated with 131I-MIBG scans, bone scintigraphy, ultrasound, computed tomography and/or magnetic resonance imaging, and bone marrow biopsy. Eight of nine primary tumours and 41 metastatic lesions were detected by 131I-MIBG scintigraphy. None of the primary lesions demonstrated significant 99Tcm-MIBI accumulation. Sestamibi was positive in 16 of 41 MIBG-avid metastatic lesions. After six courses of multidrug chemotherapy, 30 131I-MIBI-avid neuroblastoma metastases that were 99Tcm-MIBI-negative at the time of diagnosis still did not show significant sestamibi accumulation. Follow-up demonstrated that all lesions that were 99Tcm-MIBI-avid at the time of diagnosis remained negative. Of these 16 lesions, seven were positive for 131I-MIBG accumulation with no reduction in size, and nine showed resolution after therapy. New metastatic foci detected by MIBG scintigraphy did not accumulate 99Tcm-MIBI. Clinical evaluation of patients with no 99Tcm-MIBI uptake in primary and secondary sites of neuroblastoma confirmed that they were resistant to multidrug chemotherapy. All 99Tcm-MIBI-positive lesions, irrespective of clinical outcome, demonstrated significant clearance of tracer on the delayed images. We conclude that 99Tcm-MIBI has no role in the staging of neuroblastoma. Sestamibi is a well-documented transport substrate for P-glycoprotein-related multidrug resistance and serial imaging may provide prognostic information on the therapeutic value of chemotherapy.