First experience with I-123-alpha-methyl-tyrosine spect in the 3-D radiation treatment planning of brain gliomas. This study compares the results of iodine-123-alpha-methyl-tyrosine single photon computed emission tomography (IMT-SPECT) with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in tumor volume definition of brain gliomas. Furthermore, it evaluates the influences of the information provided from IMT-SPECT for three-dimensional (3D) conformal treatment planning.In 30 patients with nonresected, histologically proven brain gliomas (glioblastoma-13 patients, astrocytoma Grade III-12 patients, astrocytoma Grade II-3 patients, oligodendroglioma Grade III-1 patient, oligodendroglioma Grade II-1 patient), IMT-SPECT and MRI were performed pretherapeutically in the same week. A special software system allowed the coregistration of the IMT-SPECT and MRI data. The gross tumor volume (GTV) defined on the IMT-SPECT/T2-MRI fusion images (GTV-IMT/T2) was compared with the GTV-T2, defined on the T2-MRI alone. On the IMT-SPECT/T1Gd-MRI overlays, the volume of the IMT tumor uptake (GTV-IMT) was compared with the volume of the gadolinium (Gd) enhancement (GTV-T1Gd). The initial planning target volume (PTV) and the boost volume (BV) outlined on the IMT-SPECT/T2-MRI co-images were analyzed comparatively to the PTV and BV delineated using the T2-MRI alone.In all 30 patients a higher IMT uptake of tumor areas, compared to the normal brain tissue was observed. Mean GTV-IMT, mean GTV-T2, and mean GTV-T1Gd were 43, 82, and 16 cm(3), respectively. IMT tumor uptake outside the contrast enhancement regions was observed in all patients. Mean relative increase of tumor volume defined on the fusion images, GTV-IMT/T1Gd versus GTV-T1Gd alone was 78%. IMT tumor uptake areas outside the GTV-T2 were registered in 7 patients (23%). In these patients, the mean increase GTV-IMT/T2 was 33% higher than GTV-T2, defined according to the T2-MRI data alone. The additional information provided by IMT-SPECT modified minimally the initial PTV (mean relative increase PTV-IMT/T2 versus PTV-T2, 5%) but significantly the BV (mean relative increase BV-IMT/T2 versus BV-T2, 37%).In a significant number of patients, the IMT-SPECT investigation improves tumor detection and delineation in the planning process. This has important consequences in the 3D conformal treatment planning, especially in the delineation of BV and in dose escalation studies.