Fabrication of DNA microarrays on nanoengineered polymeric ultrathin film prepared by self-assembly of polyelectrolyte multilayers. Microarray-based technology is in need of flexible and cost-effective chemistry for fabrication of oligonucleotide microarrays. We have developed a novel method for the fabrication of oligonucleotide microarrays with unmodified oligonucleotide probes on nanoengineered three-dimensional thin films that are deposited on glass slides by consecutive layer-to-layer adsorption of polyelectrolytes. Unmodified oligonucleotide probes were spotted and immobilized on these multilayered polyelectrolyte thin films (PET) by electrostatic adsorption and entrapment on the porous structure of the PET film. The PET provides higher probe binding capacity and thus higher hybridization signal than that of the traditional two-dimensional aminosilane and poly-L-lysine coated slides. Immobilized probe densities of 3.4 x 10(12)/cm2 were observed for microarray spots on PET with unmodified 50-mer oligonucleotide probes, which is comparable to the immobilized probe densities of alkyamine-modified 50-mer probes end-tethered on an aldehyde-functionalized slide. The study of hybridization efficiency showed that 90% of immobilized probes on PET film are accessible to target DNA to form duplex format in hybridization. The DNA microarray fabricated on PET film has wider dynamic range (about 3 orders of magnitude) and lower detection limit (0.5 nM) than the conventional amino- and aldehyde-functionalized slides. Oligonucleotide microarrays fabricated on these PET-coated slides also had consistent spot morphology. In addition, discrimination of single nucleotide polymorphism of 16S rRNA genes was achieved with the PET-based oligonucleotide microarrays. The PET microarrays constructed by our self-assembly process is cost-effective, versatile, and well suited for immobilizing many types of biological active molecules so that a wide variety of microarray formats can be developed.