Sequential and simultaneous dual-isotope brain SPECT: comparison with PET for estimation and discrimination tasks in early Parkinson disease. Parkinson disease (PD) is the second most frequently occurring cerebral degenerative disease, after Alzheimer disease. Treatments are available, but their efficacy is diminished unless they are administered in the early stages. Therefore, early identification of PD is crucial. In addition to providing perfectly registered studies, simultaneous 99mTc/123I imaging makes possible the assessment of pre- and postsynaptic neurotransmission functions under identical physiological conditions, while doubling the number of counts for the same total imaging time. These advantages are limited, however, by cross talk between the two radionuclides due to the close emission energies of 99mTc (140 keV) and 123I (159 keV). PET, on the other hand, provides good temporal and spatial resolution and sensitivity but usually requires the use of a single radionuclide. In the present work, the authors compared brain PET with sequential and simultaneous dual-isotope SPECT for the task of estimating striatal activity concentration and striatal size for a normal brain and two stages of early PD. Realistic Monte Carlo simulations of a time-of-flight PET scanner and gamma cameras were performed while modeling all interactions in the brain, collimator (gamma camera) and crystal (detector block in PET), as well as population biological variability of pre- and postsynaptic uptake. For SPECT imaging, we considered two values of system energy resolution and scanners with two and three camera heads. The authors used the Cramer-Rao bound, as a surrogate for the best theoretical performance, to optimize the SPECT acquisition energy windows and objectively compare PET and SPECT. The authors determined the discrimination performance between 500 simulated subjects in every disease stage as measured by the area under the ROC curve (AUC). The discrimination accuracy between a normal subject and a subject in the prodromal disease stage was AUC = 0.924 with PET, compared to 0.863 and 0.831 with simultaneous and sequential SPECT, respectively. The significant improvement in performance obtained with simultaneous dual-isotope SPECT compared to sequential imaging (p = 0.019) was due primarily to the increased number of counts detected and resulted in comparable performance when performing simultaneous SPECT on a two-head camera with 9.2% energy resolution to that obtained with sequential SPECT on a three-head camera with 6.2% energy resolution.