Preclinical evaluation of a monoclonal antibody targeting the epidermal growth factor receptor as a radioimmunodiagnostic and radioimmunotherapeutic agent. The studies described here are the first to evaluate the in vitro and in vivo properties of (111)In-CHX-A''-panitumumab for radioimmunotherapy (alpha- and beta(-)-emitters) and radioimmunoimaging (single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography).Twenty-seven human carcinoma cell lines were analysed for expression of epidermal growth factor receptors by flow cytometry. Panitumumab was conjugated with CHX-A''-DTPA (diethylenetriamine-pentaacetic acid) and radiolabelled with (111)In. Immunoreactivity of the CHX-A''-DTPA-panitumumab and (111)In-CHX-A''-DTPA-panitumumab was evaluated by radioimmunoassays. Tumour targeting was determined in vivo by direct quantitation of tumour and normal tissues and by gamma-scintigraphy.For 26 of 27 human tumour cell lines, 95% of the cells expressed epidermal growth factor receptors over a range of intensity. Immunoreactivity of panitumumab was retained after modification with CHX-A''-DTPA. Radiolabelling of the immunoconjugate with (111)In was efficient with a specific activity of 19.5 +/- 8.9 mCi.mg(-1) obtained. Immunoreactivity and specificity of binding of the (111)In-panitumumab was shown with A431 cells. Tumour targeting by (111)In-panitumumab was demonstrated in athymic mice bearing A431, HT-29, LS-174T, SHAW or SKOV-3 s.c. xenografts with little uptake observed in normal tissues. The (111)In-panitumumab was also evaluated in non-tumour-bearing mice. Pharmacokinetic studies compared the plasma retention time of the (111)In-panitumumab in both non-tumour-bearing and A431 tumour-bearing mice. Tumour targeting was also visualized by gamma-scintigraphy.Panitumumab can be efficiently radiolabelled with (111)In with high labelling yields. Based on the efficiency in tumour targeting and low normal tissue uptake, panitumumab may be an effective targeting component for radioimmunodiagnostic and radioimmunotherapeutic applications.