I-131 SPECT/CT elucidates cryptic findings on planar whole-body scans and can reduce needless therapy with I-131 in post-thyroidectomy thyroid cancer patients. Interpreting I-131 whole-body scans (WBSs) after thyroidectomy for thyroid cancer is not simple. There are scans in which interpretation is speculative because of cryptic findings (CF). Complexity is added in scans that are done a week after an ablative or therapeutic dose of I-131 because not only is I-131-labeled thyroxine (T4) distributed throughout the body, but inorganic I-131 that is derived from the de-iodination of T4 may be also detected. We present our observations regarding the analysis of CF on WBS using I-131 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in fusion with noncontrast computed tomography (CT), referred to here and elsewhere as I-131 SPECT/CT.Forty of 184 WBSs in 38 thyroidectomized thyroid cancer patients were followed up with I-131 SPECT/CTs. The SPECT/CT images were acquired after a tracer dose of I-131 (n=82) or a week after an ablative or therapeutic dose of I-131 (n=102).Among 184 WBSs, 40 (22%) had CF. In 35 patients the WBS was negative for metastatic disease except for the CF and 5 patients had evidence of thyroid cancer in addition to the CF. There were 49 CF in the planar scans that were localized by SPECT/CT. These were characterized as physiological uptake in gingiva, thymus, gall bladder, menstrual blood, uterine fibroid, recto-sigmoid, colon, and bladder. Also observed was uptake in sites that represented nonthyroidal pathology including dental abscess, hiatal hernia, renal cyst, and struma ovarii. SPECT/CT suggested that 10 of the CF were actually of thyroid origin. In 40 SPECT/CT scans, the images contributed to interpreting the scan. In 15 of 40 patients the SPECT/CT analysis of WBS was performed with tracer doses of I-131 and was important for determining whether to administer ablative I-131 treatment. In another 25 patients, in whom SPECT/CT was performed after ablative or therapeutic doses of 131-I, information regarding the characterization of CF by SPECT/CT was useful in determining if thyroid cancer metastases or thyroid remnants were present.I-131 SPECT/CT is a useful tool to characterize atypical or CF on WBS by differentiating thyroid remnant or cancer from physiologic activity or nonthyroid pathology. In the past, uptake on a WBS that was not explicable as physiologic activity was identified as putative or possible thyroid cancer and generally was treated with I-131. Now, by identifying activity in some possible cancer sites as not thyroid cancer, SPECT/CT can reduce inappropriate treatment with I-131. SPECT/CT of WBS performed after ablative doses of 131-I is useful in determining the nature of CF and therefore likely providing prognostic information.