Metabolic (PET) and receptor (SPET) imaging of well- and less well-differentiated tumours: comparison with the expression of the Ki-67 antigen. [111In-DTPA-D-Phe1]-pentetreotide has been shown to localize well-differentiated and slowly growing neuroendocrine tumours, whereas increased FDG uptake is associated with malignancy. This prospective study explores the role of metabolic (PET) and receptor (SPET) imaging in well- and less well-differentiated tumours--gastroenteropancreatic (GEP) tumours, medullary thyroid carcinomas (MTC) and thymic carcinomas--in comparison with the expression of the Ki-67 antigen. Ten patients with GEP tumours, five with MTC and five with thymic carcinomas were studied. Prior to PET, somatostatin receptor scintigraphy (SRS) was performed in all patients. Sixty minutes after the intravenous administration of 18F-FDG (370 MBq), whole-body PET was performed. In addition, the resected tissues were prepared for immunocytochemistry examination (cell cycle-associated Ki-67 antigen). Preoperative SRS detected multiple primary tumours and metastatic lesions in four patients with well-differentiated carcinoids (low Ki-67 expression). Whole-body PET demonstrated normal distribution of FDG in all of these patients. In patients with recurrent MTC and rapidly increasing CEA levels, SRS showed no in vivo somatostatin receptor expression, whereas whole-body PET localized 24 locoregional lymph node metastases with increased FDG uptake. Immunocytochemistry of the resected lymph nodes demonstrated high Ki-67 expression associated with a high proliferative activity. Similar results in receptor scintigraphic and metabolic behaviour were obtained from patients with metastasizing thymic carcinomas (high Ki-67 expression). In conclusion, SRS has been shown to localize well-differentiated GEP tumours. In contrast, FDG PET is only valuable for predicting malignancy in less well-differentiated GEP tumours and malignant MTC associated with rapidly increasing CEA levels. Therefore, an additional 18F-FDG PET procedure should only be performed if SRS is negative. Furthermore, our preliminary results suggest that increased FDG metabolism reflects the invasiveness of thymic carcinomas.