Hemodynamic evaluations of patients with small aortic annulus with St. Jude Medical prosthetic heart valve. As the elderly population in Japan increases, senile degenerative aortic valvular disease also tends to increase. These patients often have a small aortic annulus. The problem of "valve-patient-mismatch" occurs when a small prosthesis is inserted into a patient with a small aortic annulus. To avoid annular enlargement after aortic valve replacement (AVR), we tried to use a small-sized St. Jude Medical (SJM) valve. From September 1988 through November 1996, 110 AVR were performed in our institution. In these cases, 30 underwent AVR with a small sized SJM valve (male < or = 21 mm, female < or = 19 mm). Dobutamine stress echocardiography was performed in 19 patients who had undergone AVR with a small-sized SJM valve. Surgical results were also compared between patients with small aortic annulus and those with normal-sized aortic annulus. Using Doppler echocardiography, pressure gradients (PG), cardiac index (CI), effective orifice area (EOA), and performance index (PI) were calculated at rest and during stress. The mean body surface area (BSA) of patient who had undergone AVR with SJM19A, 19HP and 21A was 1.40, 1.42 and 1.56 m2, respectively. With dobutamine stress, heart rates, PG and CI increased significantly. Mean and maximum PG of patients with 19HP (8.0 and 15.4 mmHg at rest, 12.9 and 28.0 mmHg under stress, respectively) and 21A (9.5 and 19.1 mmHg at rest, 16.5 and 35.3 mmHg under stress, respectively) were relatively low. EOA index (EOAI) of patient with 19HP showed the highest values mean 0.93 cm2/m2. PIs tended to be higher with HP models than with standard models. The tests were completed without significant side effects such as frequent ventricular arrhythmias. Among the cases with small aortic annulus, there were no operative deaths or hospital deaths. There were also no late deaths, episodes of hemorrhage or thrombosis. Conclusions. In our institution, AVR was performed safely without any aortic annular enlargement with a small aortic anulus in small BSA patients. Postoperative hemodynamic data obtained by echocardiography were satisfactory for all patients at rest and even during maximum dobutamine stress test.