Arterial reconstruction with deep leg veins for the treatment of mycotic aneurysms. Mycotic pseudoaneurysms (MPA) remain challenging clinical problems. Primary surgical management includes control of hemorrhage and debridement of the infected arterial wall. Because critical ischemia may develop after arterial resection, revascularization has been a secondary goal of treatment. Standard anatomic graft placement or prosthetic bypass grafting has been compromised by a high rate of recurrent infection. Extra-anatomic reconstruction is preferred, with the basic goals being threefold: (1) the use of autogenous graft material to reduce the risk of reinfection (2) the avoidance of significant size mismatchesIn a 2-year period, the superficial femoral and proximal popliteal veins were used in the repair of eight MPAs of the common femoral (5), common iliac (1), and brachial (1) arteries, and the infrarenal aorta (1). Most patients (5 of 7) were known intravenous drug users, who had a painful pulsatile mass in an injection area. Two patients had systemic sepsis, one patient with an infected common iliac pseudoaneurysm and one patient with an MPA of the infrarenal aorta. The diagnosis of MPA was made by means of duplex/computed tomography scanning and confirmed by means of arteriography in all cases.Obturator bypass grafting was performed by using a reversed deep leg vein in the five femoral MPAs. An ilioiliac, cross-pelvic bypass grafting procedure with a deep vein was used to repair an MPA of the common iliac artery. A deep vein was also used as a "pantaloon" aortobiiliac graft and for a brachial artery repair. Staphylococcus aureus was revealed by means of cultures in nearly all cases. Distal arterial perfusion was normal after reconstruction. Patients had no significant postoperative leg swelling. No new venous thrombosis below the level of deep vein harvest was revealed by means of duplex scanning. There were no septic complications.The superficial femoral/popliteal veins may be particularly useful for limb revascularization in patients with MPAs. This autogenous conduit provides an excellent size-match and a suitable length for reconstruction, because peripheral, axial arteries are generally affected. No clinically significant limb morbidity was related to deep vein removal. Late follow-up is challenging in such cases, but will be required to accurately determine the durability of this strategy.