Comparative evaluation of externally supported Dacron and polytetrafluoroethylene prosthetic bypasses for femorofemoral and axillofemoral arterial reconstructions. Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study #141. Currently, the choice of a vascular prosthesis for an extra-anatomic arterial bypass graft is left to the surgeon's preference because well-designed comparative evaluations have not been performed. The Department of Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study 141 was organized to identify whether there is improved patency with different prosthetic grafts for patients with femorofemoral or axillofemoral bypass grafts.Between June 1983 and June 1988, patients at 20 Veterans Affairs Medical Centers who had aortoiliac occlusive disease but were not considered suitable candidates for aortic bypass surgery were randomized to receive either an externally supported polytetrafluoroethylene or Dacron bypass graft for an extra anatomic bypass. Doppler-derived ankle brachial indices (ABIs) were determined before the operation and serially after the operation. Patients were seen in follow-up every 3 months for the first year and every 6 months thereafter. All patients were instructed to take 650 mg of aspirin each day for the duration of the study. A bypass graft was considered to be patent if the Doppler-derived postoperative ABI remained significantly improved (0.15 units above the preoperative value), and additional clinical information (such as subsequent ABIs, angiograms, or operations) did not contradict these observations.Three hundred forty patients with femorofemoral bypass grafts and 79 patients with axillofemoral or axillofemorofemoral bypass grafts were randomized. The indication for the bypass operation was limb salvage in 72% of the patients. The assisted primary patency rate for a Dacron bypass grafting was 79% at 1 year, 63% at 3 years, and 50% at 5 years for polytetrafluoroethylene bypass grafting, the patency was 77% at 1 year, 62% at 3 years, and 47% at 5 years.The overall results of this prospective randomized study suggest that the current choices of prosthetic bypass grafting have similar long-term patency in patients who undergo femorofemoral or axillofemoral vascular reconstruction.