Hemodynamic performance of the 21-mm Sorin Bicarbon mechanical aortic prostheses using dobutamine Doppler echocardiography. Small-sized mechanical aortic prostheses are commonly associated with generation of high transvalvular gradients, particularly in patients with large body surface area, and can result in patient-prosthesis mismatch. This study evaluates the hemodynamic performance of 21-mm Sorin Bicarbon bileaflet mechanical prostheses using dobutamine stress echocardiography.Fourteen patients (7 women mean age, 63+/-8 years) who had undergone aortic valve replacement with a 21-mm Sorin Bicarbon bileaflet mechanical prosthesis 32.4+/-5.1 months previously were studied. After a resting Doppler echocardiogram, a dobutamine infusion was started at a rate of 5 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) and increased to 30 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) at 15-minute intervals. Pulsed- and continuous-wave Doppler echocardiographic studies were performed at rest and at the end of each increment of dobutamine. Both peak and mean velocity and pressure gradient across the prostheses were measured, and effective orifice area, discharge coefficient, and performance index were calculated.Dobutamine stress increased heart rate and cardiac output by 83% and 81%, respectively (both p < 0.0001), and mean transvalvular gradient increased from 15.6+/-5.5 mm Hg at rest to 35.4+/-11.9 mm Hg at maximum stress (p < 0.0001). Although the indexed effective orifice area was significantly lower in patients with a larger body surface area, this was not associated with any significant pressure gradient. The performance index of this valve was unchanged throughout the study. Regression analyses demonstrated that the mean transvalvular gradient at maximum stress was independent of all variables except resting gradient (p = 0.05). Body surface area had no association with the changes in cardiac output, transvalvular gradient at maximum stress, and effective orifice area.These data show that the 21-mm Sorin Bicarbon bileaflet mechanical prosthesis offers an excellent hemodynamic performance with full utilization of its available orifice when implanted in the aortic position. The lack of significant transvalvular gradient in patients with a larger body surface area suggests that patient-prosthesis mismatch is highly unlikely when this prosthesis is used.