Visceral artery aneurysms: a single center experience. Splanchnic artery areurysm is a rare but clinically relevant disease, showing a high mortality rate in emergency surgery. Reports on splanchnic aneurysms are rare and often anecdotal. The aim of this study is to discuss data obtained from 16 patients in a single vascular surgery center.Between January 1987 and December 2000, 16 patients underwent surgery for splanchnic artery aneurysms. In 13 patients the localization was single (in two associated with an infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm) and in 3 patients multiple. The arteries involved were: splenic (8), hepatic (4), celiac (3), superior mesenteric (3), ileocolic (2), and pancreatoduodenal (1). 13 patients were asymptomatic and 3 presentec with abdominal pain. All patients underwent CT scan, and abdominal aortic and selective visceral artery angiography. Before surgery, all patients underwent cerebral MR or cerebral CT scan. 13 patients underwent open vascular surgery 3 patients (2 splenic and 1 hepatic) underwent endovascular procedure (angioembolization). Histological examination of the aneurysmal wall was obtained in 14 patients. Ultrasound examination was performed after 6 months, then yearly. 14 patients underwent abdominal CT scan during the long-term follow-up.Perioperative mortality was absent. 12 cases were classified as displastic, with minor or major secondary atherosclerotic changes, and in many cases severe calcications. 2 cases were classified as atherosclerotic. Cerebral MR did not show any cases of intracerebral displastric aneurismal disease. One patient was lost at follow-up after 9 years. One patient showed a recurrence at 6 years (superior mesenteric artery): the patient underwent a new surgical procedure and died 20 days after surgery for intestinal infarction. All abdominal follow-up CT scans show good results of the vascular reconstruction and escluded other new visceral or aortic aneurysms.Visceral artery aneurysms are an uncommon form of abdominal vascular disease showing a high postoperative mortality rate in emergencies. Surgery, and in selected cases, endovascular treatment, can successfully manage splanchnic artery aneurysms with few complications and low recurrence.