Efficacy of ultrasound scan contrast agents in the noninvasive follow-up of aortic stent grafts. Computed tomographic angiography (CTA) is currently the most commonly used technique for postoperative surveillance to detect endoleaks after endovascular stent graft repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms. We have evaluated the efficacy of duplex ultrasound scan with the addition of an ultrasound scan contrast agent in documenting endoleaks and compared these results with CTA.Conventional duplex ultrasound scan with color Doppler imaging (CDI) was first done as part of routine postoperative surveillance. After the CDI study, a 1-mL bolus of ultrasound scan contrast was given via an antecubital vein, followed by a 5-mL flush with normal saline solution. The duplex ultrasound scan evaluation of the stent graft was repeated once the contrast agent was circulating throughout the blood pool, with tissue harmonic imaging to optimize visualization of the contrast agent. Status of the stent graft, the presence or absence of any endoleak, and whether these endoleaks were graft related (group I) or arterial branch related (group II) were recorded. Findings were compared with CTA studies done within a 2-week period of the ultrasound scan examination.Twenty patients were evaluated, 18 with modular stent grafts and two with unibody bifurcated stent grafts. Patients had a mean age of 74.5 +/- 7.6 years 19 were male, with only one female. All stent grafts remained widely patent with normal aortoiliac flow hemodynamics. Duplex ultrasound scan with contrast identified all eight of the endoleaks seen with CTA and was able to determine whether they were group I or group II leaks. In two patients, ultrasound scan with contrast detected small endoleaks at the proximal graft attachment site, with extravasation of contrast into the aneurysm sac during systole. These endoleaks were not seen with CTA but were confirmed with conventional angiography at the time of endovascular closure. Standard duplex ultrasound scan with CDI failed to identify four of the 10 endoleaks in patients with technically difficult conditions.Duplex ultrasound scan, when used with an intravenously administered ultrasound scan contrast agent in the noninvasive follow-up of patients with aortic stent grafts, appears to provide good sensitivity to the presence and type of endoleaks, even in patients with technically difficult conditions not amenable to conventional duplex ultrasound scan with CDI.