Transrenal fixation of endovascular stent-grafts for infrarenal aortic aneurysm repair: mid-term results. We evaluated mid-term results of a single-center consecutive series of endovascular stent-grafts implanted for aortic aneurysm repair with transrenal fixation, to determine clinical outcome, aneurysm anatomy, renal artery patency, and renal complications.Modular stent-grafts were placed with transrenal fixation in 37 patients between November 1998 and July 2000. Follow-up evaluation included clinical examination, laboratory evaluation of serum creatine concentration, computed tomographic angiography, and renal duplex scanning.Thirty-seven patients underwent transrenal fixation of aortic stent-grafts as part of a Phase II US Food and Drug Administration study. Two patients subsequently underwent follow-up at institutions closer to their homes, and thus provided clinical information but no long-term renal or aneurysm morphologic data. There were no perioperative deaths. Five patients died during follow-up, at a mean of 9 months, because of myocardial infarction in 4 patients and respiratory failure in 1 patient. Thirty patients, ages 75 +/- 8 years, have been followed up for 28.5 +/- 7.2 months. Aneurysm diameter at follow-up was 5.0 +/- 0.8 cm, compared with 5.7 +/- 0.8 cm preoperatively. In 5 patients, endoleak developed during follow-up: 1 type I leak was treated with an aortic cuff, with temporary stabilization of the aneurysm and correction of the endoleak 2 type II endoleaks were treated with translumbar coil embolization, and 1 resolved spontaneouslyTransrenal fixation of aortic stent-grafts can be performed with acceptable mid-term outcome with respect to mortality, need for follow-up intervention, and aneurysm exclusion with protection from rupture. Postprocedural stenosis can develop in both normal and abnormal renal arteries. Rate of progression of disease was greater in patients with preprocedural renal dysfunction compared with patients with normal renal arteries. This is merely an observation, and may not be related to transrenal fixation. Long-term follow up is needed.