Carotid ultrasound findings as a predictor of long-term survival after abdominal aortic aneurysm repair: a 14-year prospective study. Several factors have been related to long-term survival after open abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair. The effect of carotid stenosis on outcome has not yet been examined. We performed an open prospective study to evaluate the prognostic significance of carotid stenosis on long-term survival of patients who had undergone elective operative repair of AAA.Two hundred eight patients who underwent elective open AAA repair in our department between March 1987 and December 2001 were included in the study. All patients were evaluated preoperatively with color duplex ultrasound (US) scanning of the carotid arteries, and were followed up with clinical examination and carotid duplex US scanning 1 month after the operation and every 6 months thereafter. Median duration of follow-up was 50 months (range, 5-181 months). Cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, as well as all causes of mortality, were recorded and analyzed with regard to traditional risk factors and carotid US findings.Twenty-seven fatal and 46 nonfatal cardiovascular events were recorded. Both univariate and multivariate analysis showed that carotid stenosis 50% or greater and echolucent plaque were significantly associated with cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. Carotid stenosis was a stronger predictor of cardiovascular death than was ankle/brachial index. Age, hypercholesterolemia, coronary artery disease, and diabetes mellitus were also associated with higher mortality and morbidity from cardiovascular causes.Patients electively operated on for AAA repair and with stenosis 50% or greater and echolucent plaque at duplex US scanning are at significantly increased risk for cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. Carotid US can therefore be used to select a subgroup of patients with AAA who might benefit from medical intervention, including antiplatelet and lipid-lowering agents.