Aortoventriculoplasty and left ventricle function: long-term follow-up. Depressed cardiac function after aortoventriculoplasty is well known during the postoperative period. Little data exist concerning the long-term follow-up. The aim of this study is to determine whether septal incision has any permanent effect on the left ventricle function.From 1988 to 2002, 45 patients received aortic mechanical prosthesis. These patients were divided into two groups. Group A consisted of 26 patients 5-18 years old, who underwent simple aortic valve replacement. Group B consisted of 19 patients 4-20 years old, who underwent the Konno procedure. Systolic and diastolic functions of the left ventricle were analyzed using echocardiography. For the systolic function, the following parameters were assessed: pressure gradient between left ventricle and ascending aorta, shortening and ejection fraction of the left ventricle. For the diastolic function, left ventricle-filling parameters were assessed: ratio of early to late filling velocity, deceleration slope of the early filling velocity and left ventricular isovolumetric relaxation time. Furthermore the percentage fraction of the aortic valve index (AOVI%) was calculated and compared between these two groups.After the surgery in group A, AOVI% dropped from 110+/-21 to 98+/-11%, while in group B it increased from 82+/-16 to 114+/-11%. As a result a higher residual pressure gradient across the aortic valve was noted in group A: 21.26+/-15 as compared to 11.17+/-5 mmHg in group B. A mean pressure above 30 mmHg appeared in group A 2 years after the surgery, while in group B this was obtained after 6 years. As for the diastolic function no significant difference was noted between these two groups. Overall there was one late death in group A, and in group B two early deaths, two reoperations because of excessive drainage and in two patients permanent pacemakers had to be implanted.Improvement of the systolic function after the surgery was noted in both groups. In patients with low AOVI%, postsurgical pressure gradient, either residual or recurrent, appeared during the follow-up. As for the septal incision, it may have some transient effects on the left ventricle function in the postoperative period, but no permanent sequelae were observed in the long-term follow-up.