Surgical management of renal fibromuscular dysplasia: challenges in the endovascular era. Percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty (PTRA) is the primary treatment for renal fibromuscular dysplasia (RFMD). Surgical revascularization is limited to patients who fail or are unsuitable for PTRA. All patients who were operated on with RFMD since the indications for renal PTRA were expanded in our institution were retrospectively reviewed. Outcome included patency, hypertension, and renal function. Twenty-six patients had reconstruction of 32 renal arteries between 1998 and 2004. The mean age was 47.1 +/- 14 years the majority (81%) were female. Six patients had bilateral disease and three had a solitary kidney. Operations were done for hypertension in 25 patients, renal artery aneurysm in 8, and chronic dissection in 1, alone or in combination. Six patients had a failed PTRA and 20 were unsuitable for it. Aortorenal bypass was done most often (n = 28) and saphenous vein was the preferred conduit (n = 25). The distal anastomosis was to the main renal artery in 13 patients and to the branch arteries in 19. Ex vivo repair was needed in five patients. Five intraoperative revisions were done because of abnormalities on duplex scan. One patient died unexpectedly 42 days after operation from myocardial infarction. Extrarenal complications occurred in five patients. Median follow-up was 2.4 (range, 42 days to 6.3) years and was available in all but one patient (96%). Two bypasses occluded at 3 and 376 days, which resulted in loss of the kidneys. One graft stenosis was treated successfully with PTRA at 239 days. All failures occurred in men. One-year cumulative primary patency was 89 +/- 8% and was not adversely affected by prior PTRA or complex repair. Hypertension at 1 year was cured in 27% of the patients and improved in 60%. No patient developed acute or chronic renal failure. Surgical reconstruction for RFMD has excellent short-term patency. Failed PTRA or complex reconstructions did not adversely affect outcome.