Guidance of interventions in subintimal recanalization and fenestration of dissection membranes using a novel dual-lumen intravascular ultrasound catheter. To evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of IVUS-guided puncture for gaining controlled target lumen reentry in subintimal recanalization of chronic iliac/femoral artery occlusions and in fenestration of aortic dissections.Between 5/2004 and 12/2005 12 consecutive patients (7 male, 5 female mean age 64.6 +/- 12.0 years) with chronic critical limb ischemia and ischemic complications of aortic dissection were treated using the Pioneer catheter. This 6.2-F dual-lumen catheter combines a 20-MHz IVUS transducer with a pre-shaped extendable, hollow 24-gauge nitinol needle. This coaxial needle allows real-time IVUS-guided puncture of the target lumen and after successful reentry a 0.014" guidewire may be advanced through the needle into the target lumen. 7 patients were treated for aortic dissection and 5 patients (with failed previous attempts at subintimal recanalization) for chronic arterial occlusion. Patients with aortic dissection (5 type A dissections, 2 type B dissections) had developed renal ischemia (n = 2), renal and mesenteric ischemia (n = 2), or low extremity ischemia (n = 3). Patients with chronic arterial occlusions (2 common iliac artery occlusions, 3 superficial femoral artery occlusions) experienced ischemic rest pain (n = 4), and a non-healing foot ulcer (n = 1).The technical success rate using the Pioneer catheter was 100%. The recanalization/fenestration time was 37 +/- 12 min. Procedure-related complications did not occur. In 10 cases a significant improvement of clinical symptoms was evident. One patient with aortic dissection and ischemic paraplegia required subsequent surgical intervention. One patient had persistent ischemic rest pain despite successful recanalization of a superficial femoral artery occlusion.The Pioneer catheter is a reliable device which may be helpful for achieving target lumen reentry in subintimal recanalization of chronic occlusions and in fenestration of aortic dissections.