Hyperhomocysteinaemia is associated with the rate of abdominal aortic aneurysm expansion. Previous literature has suggested an association between AAA and the presence of elevated plasma homocysteine levels (HCY). Homocysteine can stimulate elastolysis in the arterial media via activation of elastase and matrix metalloproteinases. No evidence in the literature exists correlating aneurysm expansion and HCY. The study objective is to identify whether the rate of AAA expansion is related to HCY.108 patients undergoing surveillance for AAA were identified at our vascular surgical unit. AAA size and growth rate were assessed by serial ultrasonographic measurements. Fasting total HCY levels were measured using fluorescence polarisation immunoassays. Demographic details and atherosclerotic risk factors were noted all AAA patients. A multivariate analysis was performed for growth rate vs. HCY, hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia. The correlation between AAA growth rate, AAA size and HCY levels were calculated.60% of patients with AAA had some degree of hyperhomocysteinaemia (> 15 micromol/l). Multivariate analysis showed HCY to be the only significant factor affecting AAA growth rate. A positive correlation was demonstrated between HCY levels and AAA growth rate using a linear regression model (R=0.28, p=0.003). Median growth rate among patients with hyperHCY was double that of patients with normal HCY (0.5 mm/month vs. 0.25 mm/month, p=0.003). A growth rate of > 10 mm/year was seen in 25% of hyper HCY patients and in only 2% of patients with normal HCY. In addition patients with hyper HCY and larger AAAs (> 4 cm) had a growth rate twice as fast as patients with hyper HCY and AAAs < 4 cm.A correlation between HCY and growth rate exists, although this is weak due to the multifactorial aetiology of AAAs. HyperHCY patients have faster expansion rates than patients with normal HCY, with significant numbers demonstrating rapid expansion (> 10 mm/year) and therefore an increased risk of rupture.