Multimedia article. Laparoscopic ultralow anterior resection with colonic J-pouch-anal anastomosis. Optimal treatment of mid to distal rectal cancers includes total mesorectal excision for oncologic clearance and, where reanastomosis is feasible, a colonic J-pouch-anal anastomosis improves bowel function. There is recent interest in performing an ultralow anterior resection laparoscopically. A technique is described that includes specimen extraction through the eventual routine defunctioning colostomy or ileostomy site.Consecutive unselected patients who underwent laparoscopic ultralow anterior resection were recruited. Patients with adenocarcinoma underwent preoperative endorectal ultrasound to individualize for neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, based on local extent and lymph nodes seen. The operative procedures were as shown in the video. Posterior dissection along the "total mesorectal excision plane" included incision of Waldeyer's fascia. Bowel continuity was restored by an intracoporeal double-cross stapled colonic J-pouch-anal anastomosis, but where not possible a coloplasty with pull-through handsewn coloanal anastomosis was performed.Laparoscopic ultralow anterior resection was performed on 55 patients (35 men median age, 63 (range, 33-90) years) from March 2004 to October 2006. The median body mass index was 26.3 (19-38)Laparoscopic ultralow anterior resection could be offered routinely and completed safely in Western populations, where obesity and adhesions from previous abdominal surgery is common. A laparoscopic technique readily allowed visual identification of the autonomic nerves in the abdomen over the aorta, which could then be followed down into the pelvis. If the pelvis was deep, inversion of the 30 degrees laparoscope in the "upside down" position fascilited incision of Waldeyer's fascia. This brought the rectum proximally and anteriorly, aiding with the laparoscopic stapler transection of the distal rectum, especially if the cancer was distal, the patient was obese, and the pelvis was narrow. Extraction of the specimen at the eventual defunctioning stoma site reduced the incisions required. Preoperative chemoradiotherapy may have a role in postoperative male sexual dysfunction. Further randomized, controlled studies that include assessing five-year cancer survival/recurrence, pelvic nerve dysfunction, and bowel function are needed before laparoscopic ultralow anterior resection becomes widely accepted.