Contrast harmonic imaging ultrasound and perfusion imaging for surveillance after endovascular abdominal aneurysm repair regarding detection and characterization of suspected endoleaks. Is Contrast Harmonic Imaging (CHI) comparable to computed tomography angiography (CTA) scan in detecting and characterizing suspected endoleaks after endovascular abdominal aneurysm repair in a non-selected group including reintervention procedure and branched endografts in daily practice?In a prospective study computed tomography angiography (CTA) and contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) were performed in 30 consecutive patients (26 males, 4 females, mean age: 72 years, range: 38-87) with suspected endoleaks in follow-up (mean 13 months, range: 1-95) after endovascular abdominal aneurysm repair or procedure in dissection or penetrated ulcer of the aorta (25 infrarenal, 5 suprarenal stent grafts, mean aortic diameter 56 mm, range: 27-98). CTA was supposed to be gold standard for determining the presence of endoleaks (multislice CT, collimation 16 x 0.75 mm, 100 ml of iodized contrast agent bolus). Ultrasonography used a multi-frequency probe (1-4 MHz) with the modalities of colour coded Doppler sonography (CCDS), power Doppler (PD) combined with contrast enhancement and the technique of contrast harmonic imaging (CHI) and low mechanical index (MI < 0.2). 2.4 ml of SonoVue (Bracco, Altana Pharma GmbH, Italy) were administered to each patient intravenously as a bolus injection.Out of 30 patients, 21 endoleaks were identified in CTA (6 type I or III, 15 type II), 22 in CHI. Thus, sensitivity for CHI was therefore 99%, its specificity 85% (Spearman correlation coefficient (CC) 0.92). In follow-up the localizations of endoleak type I or III exclusively detected by CHI were confirmed as true positive by angiography. Due to its dynamic characteristic CHI seemed to be more helpful in characterization of endoleaks than CTA. In case of a rupture after reintervention a type III endoleak leads to prompt intervention before receiving the result of the CT scan. Altogether, CHI failed to identify 1 combined type I and II endoleak (sensitivity 0.99). Both, CCDS and PD were positive only in 6/30 patients (CC 0.33 and 0.39). Interestingly the application of contrast agent doubles the detection rate of endoleaks (12/30) in CCDS and PD (CC 0.39).Contrast harmonic imaging (CHI) compared to computed tomography angiography (CTA) accurately depicts endoleaks after endovascular abdominal aneurysm repair and stent-graft procedure in dissected and ulcerated aorta. It seems to be superior in characterization of the type of endoleaks and can be established in order to reduce iodized contrast agent and radiation exposure in follow-up. In contrast to CTA scan CHI can be offered to patients with chronic renal insufficiency and allows a dynamic examination and a perfusion analysis.