Postoperative intensive care of biliary atresia patients treated with living donor liver transplantation. To summarize experience of pediatric intensive care and explore the incidence of complications, the involved pathogens among liver recipients to determine the effective strategies for preventing complications.Between June 2006 and July 2009, 35 children under the age of 14 yr received 35 liver transplantations (LTs) performed at the center. A retrospective review of 22 infants weighing 8.8 kg or less underwent 23 transplants was conducted. Indication for transplantation was biliary atresia. Central venous pressure and arterial blood pressure were monitored continuously and fluid monitoring was performed every 2 hours in the first postoperative week. Blood loss, ascites, and intraoperative transudate loss were primarily replaced with 5% albumin and crystalloids to maintain a central venous pressure between 4 and 6 cm H(2)O. Oral food intake was allowed as soon as possible. To identify vascular or biliary complications, liver doppler ultrasound was performed intraoperatively immediately after reperfusion and after closure of the abdominal wall and postoperatively, twice daily during the first week after surgery. Immunosuppression was initially cyclosporine based, in combination with steroids. Cyclosporine was begun one day prior to transplantation at a dose of 10 mg/(kg·d) divided into two doses, except for cases with hepatic encephalopathy and severe infection. The subsequent doses were adjusted on the basis of recommended trough blood concentrations at different stages. Steroids were eventually discontinued at a time point exceeding 6 months after transplantation. The diagnosis of rejection was confirmed by histology on needle biopsy specimens. Acute graft rejection episodes were treated with a 3-day scheme of IV methylprednisolone 10 mg/(kg·d) followed by recycling doses during the following 3 days (7.5, 5 and 2.5 mg/(kg·d).The most common postoperative complications were infections (18 cases), gastrointestinal bleeding (3 cases), and vascular complications (4 cases). Rejection occurred in 25% of patients. There was one perioperative death from primary graft non-function. The most common isolated bacteria of the pathogen spectrum were Staphylococcus epidermidis. The median length of stay (LOS) in the PICU for 22 patients (23 transplants) was 10 days (range 5 - 21) and the mean length of stay in the hospital was (18.5 ± 116) days (range, 11 - 48 days). Mean requirement for artificial ventilation was 37.6 h. Mean use of dobutamine, prostaglandin E1 and dopamine was 3.3, 7.5 and 8.8 days, respectively. Preoperatively, 3 children had gastrointestinal bleeding, 18 had ascites, 2 had encephalopathy, 22 had jaundice, and 16 had coagulopathy. There were multiple early operative complications in these infants, including one graft with primary non-function (4.5%). Two patients (9.1%) returned for a total of three times for gastrointestinal bleeding or intra-abdominal hematoma. Three patients (13.6%) had early postoperative intestinal perforations related to adhesions or enterotomy, one was associated with a bowel obstruction. There were 26 episodes of bacterial or fungal infections in 18 (81.8%) patients in the early postoperative period, and infection was the direct/contributing cause of death in one infant. These infections included pneumonia, intra-abdominal abscess or sepsis. All of the bacterial and fungal infections were successfully treated with the appropriate antibacterial and antifungal agents, except for one patient who developed overwhelming sepsis after small bowel perforation. Four (18.2%) patients developed five episodes of acute allograft rejection during the first 15 days after LT. Three of the four patients who developed rejection were transplanted before 2007. All episodes of rejection were treated successfully with intravenous steroid pulse and optimization of cyclosporine levels or FK506 conversion. Of the 20 survivors beyond the perioperative period, two cases (10%) had hypertension requiring therapy.Liver transplantation in infants with biliary atresia appears technically demanding but acceptable. There should be essentially no age or size restriction for infants and transplantation can be performed with good outcome, although the frequency of complications is much higher than that seen in older children. The improvement in medical and nursing expertise in this group of very sick infants is based on judicious preoperative donor and recipient selection, meticulous surgical technique (vascular reconstruction and abdominal closure), immediate detection and prompt intervention of complications, and keen postoperative surveillance, which reflect a learning curve for both the technical aspects of liver transplantation and post-operative care of these very small patients in our institution. Liver transplantation for infants can be technically challenging.