Serum fetuin-A levels inversely correlate with the severity of arterial calcification in patients with chronic lower extremity atherosclerosis without renal disease. Fetuin-A is a hepatic glycoprotein that inhibits extraosseous calcification. Lower serum fetuin-A concentration was associated with severe arterial calcification in patients with end stage renal disease. We evaluated the association of serum fetuin-A levels and the severity of atherosclerosis in patients with peripheral vascular disease having normal renal function.In this cross-sectional study among 93 chronic atherosclerotic patients with lower extremity vascular disease, systemic atherosclerosis and calcification was assessed by ultrasound (carotid intima-media thickness/IMT/, calcification at the abdominal aorta, carotid and femoral bifurcations, aortic and mitral valves) and angiography (Bollinger score). Standard serum markers of inflammation, diabetes, renal function, ankle-brachial indexes and traditional risk factors for atherosclerosis were noted and Fontaine classification was applied for the severity of symptoms.The patients mean (SD) age was 59.95 (7.61) years, 78% were men, 35% had diabetes. Serum fetuin-A level showed significant negative correlation with ultrasound calcification score (P=0.018, r=-0.257) and Bollinger angiographic score (P=0.035, r=-0.347). Fetuin-A did not correlate with IMT or Fontaine classification. Fetuin-A also showed significant correlation with albumin, transferrin and hemoglobin A1c (r=0.287, 0.305 and 0.219, respectively at P<0.05). Logistic regression analysis confirmed the association between fetuin-A and calcification score (OR: 3.03, CI: 1.05-8.7), P=0.039) independent of traditional risk factors.Our data show that serum fetuin-A levels inversely correlate with the severity of atherosclerosis in nonuremic patients with symptomatic chronic lower limb ischemia. These data support a putative protective role for fetuin-A in the development of arterial calcification.