Real-time continuous neuromonitoring combines transcranial cerebral Doppler with near-infrared spectroscopy cerebral oxygen saturation during total aortic arch replacement procedure:  a pilot study. The purpose of this investigation was to use combined transcranial cerebral Doppler (TCD) and near-infrared spectroscopy cerebral oxygen saturation (NIRS) during total aortic arch replacement (TAAR) to monitor middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity and regional cerebral oximetry (rSO(2)) changes to provide a clinical basis for protective measures that may decrease injury of the central nervous system. Consecutive 12 adult patients underwent deep hypothermic circulatory arrest (DHCA) and antegrade selective cerebral perfusion (ASCP) during TAAR. A TCD probe was placed at the temporal windows after induction of anesthesia and the NIRS probe placed on the forehead of patients to collect perioperative, intraoperative, and postoperative hemodynamic parameters, and cerebral blood flow (CBF) and rSO(2) during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). In this retrospective case series, all patients survived, and there were no postoperative neurologic complications. There was no significant correlation between the mean arterial pressure and rSO(2). The middle cerebral artery mean velocity (VmMCA) and rSO(2) were significantly correlated, and main pump flow significantly correlated with rSO(2). After ASCP, VmMCA, rSO(2), and venous oxygen saturation were significantly lower than before ASCP, but VmMCA and rSO(2) returned to pre-CPB levels postoperatively. After off pump, the flow of ASCP showed a significant positive correlation with VmMCA and rSO(2). During DHCA when ASCP flow was lower than 5 ml/kg/min, TCD could not detect the MCA blood flow signal. When the flow of ASCP was above keeping around 10 ml/kg/min, MCA CBF velocity was maintained and rSO(2) > 45%. The combination of TCD and NIRS can be effective in monitoring brain function during DHCA with ASCP and may provide a guide for decreasing brain injury during the TAAR procedure.