Transapical transcatheter aortic valve implantation using the JenaValve™ system: acute and 30-day results of the multicentre CE-mark study. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has shown promising results in patients with severe aortic stenosis (AS) at high risk for conventional heart surgery. The safety and efficacy of transapical aortic valve implantation using the JenaValve™, a second-generation TAVI device, were evaluated. The system consists of a tested porcine root valve mounted on a nitinol stent with feeler-guided positioning and clip fixation on the diseased leaflets.This multicentre, prospective, single-arm study, conducted at seven German sites, enrolled 73 patients (mean age 83.1 ± 3.9), European System for Cardiac Operative Risk Evaluation (EuroSCORE) (28.4 ± 6.5%) of whom 67 patients underwent elective TAVI. Three sizes were used for annular diameters up to 23 mm (n = 21), 25 mm (n = 31) and 27 mm (n = 15). Clinical and echocardiographic evaluations were performed at baseline, post-procedure, discharge and 30 days, and also at 3, 6 and 12 months. The primary endpoint was all-cause mortality at 30 days. Secondary endpoints were procedural success, major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events and echocardiographic performance.TAVI with the JenaValve™ device was successful in 60 patients (procedural success rate 89.6%). The overall mortality at 30 days was 7.6%. Conversion to surgery was necessary in four patients (6%), two patients underwent valve-in-valve implantations (3%), one patient was withdrawn per protocol after conversion to TAVI using a balloon-expandable valve (1.5%) since the patient did not receive the study device. Perioperative stroke occurred in two cases (3%). Pacemaker implantation for new onset conduction disorders was necessary in six patients (9.1%). No ostial coronary obstructions were seen. Post-procedure TAVI resulted in favourable reduction of mean transvalvular gradients (40.6 ± 15.9 vs. 10.0 ± 7.2 mmHg, P < 0.0001) and increase in valve opening area (0.7 ± 0.2 vs. 1.7 ± 0.6 cm², P < 0.0001). The majority of successfully treated patients revealed no or minimal paravalvular aortic regurgitation (86.4%) none of the patients had severe post-procedural regurgitation (>2+).Transapical JenaValve™ implantation was safe and effective in the treatment of severe AS in elderly patients at high risk for surgery. Active clip fixation on the native leaflets and anatomically correct feeler-guided positioning led to good functionality and prevented ostial coronary impairment. Implantation without the need for rapid pacing prevented haemodynamic compromise during valve implantation.