Coarctation of the aorta. Coarctation of the aorta is an important and treatable cause of secondary hypertension. The prevalence of aortic coarctation varies from 5% to 8% of all congenital heart defects. Neonates and infants, especially when they have other associated cardiac defects, may present with signs and symptoms of heart failure. Children beyond infancy are usually asymptomatic and are most often diagnosed because of a murmur or hypertension on a routine examination. Palpation of the brachial and femoral pulses simultaneously will show decreased and delayed or absent femoral pulses. On measurement of blood pressure from arms and legs, a pressure difference of more than 20 mm Hg in favor of the arms may be considered as evidence for coarctation of the aorta. The coarctation can be demonstrated on suprasternal notch two-dimensional echocardiographic views along with increased Doppler flow velocity across the coarctation site. Cardiac catheterization shows significant peak-to-peak systolic pressure gradient across the coarcted segment, and aortography demonstrates the degree and nature of the aortic narrowing. Aortic coarctation may be relieved by surgery or by balloon angioplasty in asymptomatic patients, therapy during the ages of 2 and 5 years is suggested. Surgical relief of coarctation may be achieved by resection and end-to-end anastomosis or by subclavian flap or prosthetic path angioplasty. Although results of surgery are generally good, there are some problems with the procedure, namely, mortality, morbidity and recoarctation, particularly in neonates and young infants and development of aneurysm, paraplegia, and paradoxical hypertension. Balloon angioplasty has been used by some cardiologists with resultant relief of obstruction, but concern for development of aneurysms and arterial complications remain. Although the immediate results for surgical or balloon therapy for isolated coarctation are good, long-term prognosis is largely undetermined. Limited long-term follow-up studies suggest significantly lower survival rates compared with normal population