Impact of size mismatch and left ventricular function on performance of the St. Jude disc valve after aortic valve replacement. The hemodynamic function of the St. Jude valve may change relative to changes in left ventricular function after aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis. From theoretical reasons one may hypothesize that prosthetic valve hemodynamic function is related to left ventricular failure and mismatch between valve size and patient/ventricular chamber size.Forty patients aged 24 to 82 years who survived aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis with a standard St. Jude disc valve (mean size, 23.5 mm range, 19 to 29 mm) were followed up prospectively with Doppler echocardiography and radionuclide left ventriculography preoperatively and 9 days, 3 months, and 18 months after the operation with assessment of intravascular hemolysis at 18 months. Follow-up to a maximum of 7.4 years (mean, 6.3 years) was 100% complete.Left ventricular muscle mass index decreased from 198 +/- 62 g.m-2 preoperatively to 153 +/- 53 g.m-2 at 18 months (p < 0.001), paralleled by a significant increase in left ventricular ejection fraction, peak ejection rate, and peak filling rate only 18% of the patients had normal left ventricular muscle mass index and only 32% normal ventricular function (normal left ventricular ejection fraction, peak ejection rate, peak filling rate, early filling fraction, and late filling fraction during atrial contraction) at 18 months. Prosthetic valve peak Doppler gradient dropped from 20 +/- 6 mm Hg at 9 days to 17 +/- 5 mm Hg at 18 months (p < 0.05). Reduction of left ventricular muscle mass index was unrelated to peak gradient and size of the valve. Peak gradient at 18 months rose with valve orifice diameter of 17 mm or less (by 6 mm Hg), orifice diameter/body surface area of 9 mm.m-2 or less (by 5 mm Hg), left ventricular enddiastolic dimension (by 23 mm Hg per 10 mm increase), and impaired ventricular function (by 3 mm Hg). All but 2 patients (5%) had intravascular hemolysisThe peak gradient of the St. Jude aortic valve dropped marginally over the first 18 postoperative months in association with incomplete left ventricular hypertrophy regression and marginal improvement of ventricular function. Mismatch between valve size and ventricular cavity size or patient size and impaired function of a dilated ventricle significantly compromised the performance of the St. Jude valve. Probably explained by platelet destruction or activation, paravalvular leak was related to bleeding and thromboembolic complications.