Surgical delay for acute type A dissection with malperfusion. An acute type A aortic dissection is considered a surgical emergency. Review of the risk factors for a type A dissection showed that preoperative malperfusion was associated with a 22% (2/9) intraoperative mortality and an 89% (8/9) hospital mortality. Intraoperative deaths were secondary to pulmonary failure resulting from capillary leak the remaining patients died of multiorgan failure resulting from reperfusion injury.The surgical delay approach was adopted for malperfused patients, and treatment in these patients included percutaneous reperfusion, with aortic fenestration and branch stenting where appropriate. Twenty patients had a type A dissection and malperfusion shown by pulsed-wave Doppler echocardiography, transesophageal echocardiography, or spiral computed tomographic scanning. Malperfusion was documented by angiography. After reperfusion, all patients' conditions were stabilized in the intensive care unit intravenous beta-blockers were administered to decrease the maximum rate of increase of left ventricular pressure. Once patients completely recovered from the consequences of malperfusion, surgical repair was performed. Statistical comparison of the non-delay and delay groups was performed using Fisher's exact test and Student's t test. Multiple logistic regression analysis was used to establish independent predictors for mortality.The mean delay to repair was 20 days (2 to 67 days). Four (31%) patients were discharged home and readmitted for operation. Three patients (15%) died preoperatively, 1 of retrograde dissection and rupture and 2 of reperfusion injury. Seventeen underwent surgical repair, with two deaths (12%) 15 (75%) were discharged, with an average follow-up of 16.8 months (p < 0.003). Delay was the only independent predictor of outcome.Patients with an acute type A dissection and malperfusion should undergo percutaneous reperfusion, and surgical repair should be delayed until the reperfusion injury resolves.