The feasibility of statistical parametric mapping for the analysis of positron emission tomography studies using 11C-2-beta-carbomethoxy-3-beta-(4-fluorophenyl)-tropane in patients with movement disorders. Movement disorders, including Parkinson's disease and parkinsonian syndromes, e.g. progressive supranuclear palsy, multiple system atrophy, and Lewy body dementia, may be difficult to differentiate among each other at an early stage, since they may share similar clinical features and response to dopaminergic drugs. As new tracers for imaging the dopamine transporters become available, the use of positron emission tomography (PET) for the differential diagnosis of movement disorders is gaining clinical relevance. Visual interpretation is generally used for PET image analysis. However, the use of some form of less subjective analysis is desirable in order to detect subtle changes that may be difficult to identify by visual interpretation and to achieve an operator independent analysis. To this end this study was aimed at assessing the feasibility of using statistical parametric mapping (SPM) for the clinical evaluation of single PET scans performed with 2-beta-carbomethoxy-3-beta-(4-fluorophenyl)-tropane ( C-beta-CIT-FE). Eleven healthy volunteers and five patients with movement disorders (Parkinson's disease, essential tremor, PSP and Lewy body dementia) were included in this study. Each subject underwent a PET study after i.v. injection of C-beta-CIT-FE. The PET images of C-beta-CIT-FE distribution acquired between 60 and 90 min were spatially fitted into the Talairach and Tournoux space. A template of normal C-beta-CIT-FE distribution was derived from studies in the 11 normal control subjects. Different patterns of reduction of the uptake of the tracer were detected in the basal ganglia of the five patients, in relation to each pathological condition. The patterns of distribution were all consistent with the severity and type of disease. The results of this study demonstrate the feasibility of differentiating among different states of dopaminergic impairment, due to Parkinson's disease and parkinsonian syndromes, by using PET scans with C-beta-CIT-FE and by using the SPM procedure for analysis of the data.