Assessment of myocardial viability in dysfunctional myocardium by resting myocardial blood flow determined with oxygen 15 water PET. There is controversy about the role of decreased resting blood flow as the pathophysiologic correlate of hibernating myocardium. The aim of this study was an absolute quantification of volumetric myocardial blood flow (MBFvol) in dysfunctional myocardium with different viability conditions as defined by fluorine 18 deoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) while taking into consideration the functional recovery after revascularization. The impact of MBFvol in the diagnosis of functional recovery was also investigated.Forty-two patients with severe coronary artery disease and dysfunctional myocardium underwent resting oxygen 15 water PET, as well as FDG PET and technetium 99m tetrofosmin single photon emission computed tomography, all attenuation-corrected. Relative FDG and Tc-99m tetrofosmin uptake (normalized to the segment with 100% Tc-99m tetrofosmin uptake), as well as MBFvol (myocardial blood flow multiplied by the water-perfusable tissue fraction to account for the flow to the entire segment volume), were determined in 18 myocardial segments per patient. Viability in dysfunctional segments (estimated by ventriculography) with reduced Tc-99m tetrofosmin uptake of 70% or lower was classified as viable (FDG >70%, mismatch) or nonviable (FDG < or =70%, match). Fifteen patients underwent revascularization and were followed up. Mismatch segments with improved function were classified as hibernating myocardium. Mean MBFvol in viable myocardium was slightly reduced (0.60 +/- 0.02 mL x min(-1) x mL(-1)) compared with that in normokinetic myocardium (0.64 +/- 0.01 mL x min(-1) x mL(-1)) (P = .036) and was significantly higher than in nonviable myocardium (0.36 +/- 0.01 mL x min(-1) x mL(-1)) (P < .001). Receiver operating characteristic analysis confirmed an FDG uptake greater than 70% as the optimal threshold to predict functional recovery (diagnostic accuracy [ACC], 76%). MBFvol in hibernating myocardium (0.62 +/- 0.04 mL x min(-1) x mL(-1)) was not significantly reduced compared with that in normokinetic myocardium (0.66 +/- 0.02 mL x min(-1) x mL(-1)) and was significantly higher than in persistently dysfunctional myocardium (0.51 +/- 0.04 mL x min(-1) x mL(-1)) (P < .05). The ACC of MBFvol greater than 0.40 mL x min(-1) x mL(-1) as the threshold to predict functional recovery was 61% but did not improve the accuracy of FDG PET by itself.In patients with severe coronary artery disease and dysfunctional myocardium, MBFvol as determined with O-15 water differs significantly between viable and nonviable myocardium as determined by FDG PET and is not significantly reduced in hibernating compared with normokinetic myocardium. Therefore chronically reduced resting blood flow appears unlikely to be the pathophysiologic correlate of the functional state of hibernation. However, MBFvol does not improve the ACC of FDG PET by itself.