Multimodal treatment of non small cell lung cancer. The primary treatment of lung cancer depends on tumor stage. Chest CT scan and bronchoscopy are used to define the TNM stage and resectability. In case of lung cancer without mediastinal lymph node enlargement or direct mediastinal involvement (clinical stage I-IIb + T3N1) surgical treatment is recommended. The use of adjuvant chemotherapy has to be defined, but will be indicated in stage II and IIIa. Expected 5-year survival achieves 40 to 80 % depending on tumor stage. Exceeds the shorter diameter of mediastinal lymph nodes in chest CT scan more than 1 cm (or in case of positive PET scan) mediastinoscopy is indicated. In case of N2-disease and after tumor response to preoperative chemotherapy (about 60 %) secondary resection of the tumor leads to higher 5-year survival rates (20-40 %) compared to patients without induction therapy (5-20 %). In these patients and after unexpected detection of solitary lymph node metastasis by primary resection adjuvant mediastinal radiotherapy should be added. If the tumor has infiltrated the mediastinum or the upper sulcus (T3/4) and/or mediastinal lymph nodes are obviously tumor burden (e. g. > 3 cm, N2 bulky, N3) radical primary resection may not be possible. In these patients combined radio- and chemotherapy induces a high percentage of tumor regression and can be used before secondary resection (5-year survival 5-20 %). Locally advanced tumors infiltrating the main bronchus close to the carina or the carina itself and tumors with metastases in the same lobe, both without mediastinal lymph node metastases (T3/4N0-1), can be resected by sleeve pneumonectomy and lobectomy with satisfactory results respectively. In patients with resectable lung cancer and no clinical sign of tumor disease (f. e. anemia, weight loss, pain) limited staging procedure with chest CT scan including upper abdomen and bronchoscopy is reasonable. In the remaining patients complete staging is necessary. We recommend an interdisciplinary approach to patients with lung cancer.