(99m)Tc-MIBI imaging for prediction of therapeutic effects of second-generation MDR1 inhibitors in malignant brain tumors. The aim of this study was to explore whether (99m)Tc-methoxyisobutylisonitrile ((99m)Tc-MIBI) is suitable to elucidate multidrug resistance and prediction of potentiation of antitumor agents by second-generation MDR1 inhibitors (PSC833, MS-209) in malignant brain tumors in rat. Malignant tumor cells (RG2 and C6 gliomas, Walker 256 carcinoma) were incubated with low dose vincristine (VCR) to induce multidrug resistance. MTT assay demonstrated a significant increase of surviving fractions in VCR-resistant sublines compared to those of drug-naive cells. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction revealed higher expression of MDR1 mRNA in VCR-resistant cells than drug-naive cells in each line. Volume distribution (V(d)) of (99m)Tc-MIBI was negatively correlated with MDR1 mRNA expression among drug-naive and VCR-resistant cells. MDR1 inhibitors decreased surviving fractions and increased V(d) of (99m)Tc-MIBI significantly in VCR-resistant sublines, whereas MDR1 mRNA expression was unchanged. These findings indicate that (99m)Tc-MIBI efflux was functionally suppressed by MDR1 inhibitors. Autoradiographic images of (99m)Tc-MIBI revealed higher uptake in drug-naive cells at basal ganglia compared with VCR-resistant cells at the opposite basal ganglia of rats. Oral administration of the second-generation MDR1 inhibitors significantly increased (99m)Tc-MIBI accumulation of both tumors. Therapeutic effects of VCR with or without the MDR1 inhibitors were also evaluated autoradiographically using (14)C-methyl-L-methionine ((14)C-Met) and MIB-5 index. (14)C-Met uptake and MIB-5 index of both tumors treated with VCR following the MDR1 inhibitor treatment significantly decreased compared with tumors treated with VCR alone. Analysis of (99m)Tc-MIBI accumulation is considered informative for detecting MDR1-mediated drug resistance and for monitoring the therapeutic effects of MDR1 inhibitors in malignant brain tumors.