Tricarbonyl[ The renin–angiotensin system (RAS) plays a very important role in the regulation of blood pressure in humans (1-4). Renin is an enzyme produced in the kidneys, and it cleaves circulating angiotensinogen (a protein produced in the liver) to yield angiotensin I, an inactive decapeptide. The angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), found primarily in the lung, converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II, an active vasoconstrictor octapeptide. Angiotensin II also stimulates the production of aldosterone from the adrenal glands, which promotes retention of sodium and water. ACE is also responsible for inactivating bradykinin, a vasodilator (5). RAS and angiotensin II also play a role in interstitial fibrosis, cardiac remodeling and fibrosis, and heart failure (6, 7). It has been shown that RAS operates in the heart, and an upregulation of this system is correlated to heart failure (8-10). Inhibition of ACE in patients with heart failure has often resulted in a favorable outcome for the patient (11), although individuals treated with ACE inhibitors have been reported to respond differently as a result of genetic variations in the enzyme a meta-analysis of data obtained from children of different races who had been treated with these inhibitors has shown the children reacted differently to the treatment (12, 13). In addition, the proper timing, optimal dosing, and monitoring of ACE inhibitor therapy for the individualized treatment of patients has not been fully worked out. Also, ACE appears to have a role in several other pathological conditions including myeloid leukemia, atherosclerosis, and diabetes (in the kidneys of patients) because an increased level of either the protein or its mRNA has been reported under these conditions (14-16). In a preliminary radioautographic study, Dilsizian et al. showed that ACE expression correlated with the extent of the disease in patients with congestive heart failure and suggested that monitoring ACE expression may help monitor molecular remodeling of the heart (3). On the basis of this observation, Femia et al. envisioned that a radiotracer designed for imaging the RAS would be helpful for the development of individualized ACE inhibitor therapy (17). In this regard, a compound with high affinity for ACE, such as lisinopril or its derivative, would be best suited to study the expression of a radiotracer. Several derivatives of lisinopril that can incorporate rhodium or palladium while maintaining high affinity for ACE were reported and could probably be used to synthesize radiolabeled analogs of the compound (18). Using a single amino acid chelator technology based on the di(pyridylmethyl)amine chelator, Femia et al. synthesized a technetium-carbonyl (Tc(CO)