Qualitative and quantitative assessment of metal artifacts arising from implantable cardiac pacing devices in oncological PET/CT studies: a phantom study. We evaluate the magnitude of metallic artifacts caused by various implantable cardiac pacing devices (without leads) on both attenuation maps (μ-maps) and positron emission tomography (PET) images using experimental phantom studies. We also assess the efficacy of a metal artifact reduction (MAR) algorithm along with the severity of artifacts in the presence of misalignment between μ-maps and PET images.Four pacing devices including two pacemakers (pacemakers 1 and 2) and two cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) devices of pacemaker (CRT-P) and defibrillator (CRT-D) type were placed in three phantoms including a cylindrical Ge-68 phantom, a water-bath phantom and an anthropomorphic heart/thorax phantom. The μ-maps were derived from computed tomography (CT) images reconstructed using the standard method supplied by the manufacturer and those reconstructed using the MAR algorithm. In addition, the standard reconstructed CT images of the last two phantoms were manually misaligned by 10 mm along the patient's axis to simulate misalignment between CT and PET images.The least and severest artifacts produced on both μ-maps and PET images of the Ge-68 phantom were induced by CRT-P and pacemaker 1 devices, respectively. In the water-bath phantom, CRT-P induced 17.5% over- and 9.2% underestimation of tracer uptake whereas pacemaker 1 induced 69.6% over- and 65.7% underestimation. In the heart/thorax phantom representing a pacemaker-bearing patient, pacemaker 1 induced 41.8% increase and 36.6% decrease in tracer uptake and attenuation coefficients on average in regions corresponding to bright and dark streak artifacts, respectively. Statistical analysis revealed that the MAR algorithm was successful in reducing bright streak artifacts, yet unsuccessful for dark ones. In the heart/thorax phantom, the MAR algorithm reduced the overestimations to 4.4% and the underestimations to 35.5% on average. Misalignment between μ-maps and PET images increased the peak of pseudo-uptake by approximately 20%.This study demonstrated that, depending on their elemental composition, different implantable cardiac pacing devices result in varying magnitudes of metal artifacts and thus pseudo-uptake on PET images. The MAR algorithm was not successful in compensating for underestimations which calls for a more efficient algorithm. The results showed that misalignments between PET and CT images render metal-related pseudo-uptake more severe.