The use of PET/CT in radiotherapy of patients with non-small cell lung cancer. The goal of this paper was to investigate the influence of FDG-PET/CT scan on the modification of staging and irradiation planning in patients suffering from non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Fifteen patients suffering from NSCLC were analyzed by the authors from January, 2008 to July, 2009. The aim of the analysis was to examine the influence of FDG-PET/CT on irradiation planning and on decision-making of the complex oncologic therapy. The FDG-PET/CT scan was carried out in the position of irradiation performed later. For irradiation planning, planning target volumes (PTV) and the organs of risk were contoured on the patients' topometric CT slides as well as on the fused FDG-PET/CT slides. We evaluated how the application of PET/CT modified the stage of the illness, the complex oncologic therapeutic plan, the volume and the localization of the PTV, and the irradiation doses of the organs at risk. The mean and maximum dose of the spinal cord, the mean and V20 dose load of the lungs and the mean dose loads of the heart as well as of the left ventricle were measured. In 8 of 15 cases the stage of the disease and the treatment strategy was modified, since distant metastases were detected by the PET/CT. We evaluated the modification of the PTV and dose load of the organs at risk in 7 cases. According to the PET/CT the PTV was reduced in 5 cases (mean: 393.6 cm3) and was increased in 2 cases (mean: 250.8 cm3). Concerning the risk organs we found that the average (8.8 Gy/9.5 Gy) and maximum (33.4 Gy/36.4 Gy) dose load of the spinal cord increased, while the average (24.5 Gy/13.8 Gy) and V20 (33.7%/22.1%) dose load of the lungs decreased. We likewise found a decrease in the mean dose load of the heart (17.3 Gy/16.8 Gy) and left ventricle (12.9 Gy/9.6 Gy). In the majority of the cases the FDG-PET/CT scan modified the therapeutic decision, the size of the irradiated volume, and the dose load of the lung, the organ at risk causing the most difficulties at irradiation planning, was also reduced. The PET/CT scan plays an essential role in the complex oncologic treatment and irradiation therapy of NSCLC.