Clinical and bacteriological evaluation of ceftriaxone (CTRX) dosed once daily in children with community-acquired pneumonia. Clinical and bacteriological evaluation was performed as follows on ceftriaxone (CTRX) at a dose of 50 mg/kg once daily to pediatric patients with community-acquired pneumonia. Of 48 subject patients, CTRX was markedly effective in 36 (75.0%), effective in 9 (18.7%), slightly effective in 2 (4.2%), and failure in 1 (2.1%), indicating the overall effective rate of 93.7%. In 47 (97.9%) patients with the exception of 1, it was observed during the period of administration that fever was resolved and clinical symptoms as well as radiographically abnormal shadows were found relieved or improved. Patients infected by an isolated strain accounted for 34 (70.8%), while those by multiple strains 14 (29.2%), indicating that either Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus influenzae, or both were detected in almost all patients (45 cases). Of the 48 patients, bacteriological effect was eliminated in 44 (91.7%), and replacement of the bacteria in the remaining 4 (8.3%). MIC90 of CTRX against detected bacteria was 0.2 microgram/ml with H. influenzae, < or = 0.025 microgram/ml with PSSP, 0.1 microgram/ml with PISP, and 0.39 microgram/ml with PRSP. Blood concentration of CTRX at 50 mg/kg upon completion of 1-hour drip intravenous infusion was 89.7 +/- 25.2 micrograms/ml, and 6.6 +/- 0.9 micrograms/ml at 24 hours after the completion, indicating that the concentrations had been well above the levels of MIC90 throughout the 24 hours. Abnormal symptoms, which were most likely adverse drug reactions, were not observed in any patients, and no abnormal changes were noted in patients, whose clinical lab values were taken before or after the administration. Situations may differ by region in Japan, however, infants under 3 are generally exempted from medical payment regardless of inpatients or outpatients. When hospitalized, psychological burden upon pediatric patients without guardians attended must be enormous. If they are over 3, there is a difference in medical costs between inpatients and outpatients, with greater economic burden on inpatients. Thus, it was considered worth attempting the outpatient treatment as one of new therapies for community-acquired pneumonia, though the outpatient treatment should not be encouraged without due consideration. Based on these results, CTRX dosed once daily to pediatric patients with community-acquired pneumonia is clinically and bacteriologically superior in usefulness. Further review may be necessary, however, it is considered that outpatient treatment can also serve as one of the options, if safety of once-a-day administration of CTRX can be established.