Epidemiology and management of suspected pneumonia in nursing home residents. We conducted a descriptive epidemiology study to examine the conditions of management of infectious lung disease in institutionalized elderly populations (population profile, diagnostic and therapeutic modalities) and to analyze the general and mental consequences in terms of independence (impact of the infectious event on the subject's life style).A pragmatic survey was conducted by a multicentric observatory composed of 573 general practitioners, practicing in nursing homes. The series included 1790 patients aged over 70 years and residing in nursing homes who developed infectious lung disease over a 10-month period. The MMSE score was used to assess mental status and the Barthel index to assess functional handicap. Each patient was evaluated at the time of the final diagnosis (prescription of an antibiotic or decision for hospitalization) and at most 3 days after the end of this treatment or at discharge from hospital.The elderly population (84 +/- 7 years) was predominantly composed of women. The patients were treated for an acute respiratory infection considered in 30% of the cases to be acute lobar pneumonia. Subgroups of patients were identified for analysis: death (3.7%), x-ray confirmation of the diagnosis (11.5%), hospitalized patients (10.2%). In addition to major deterioration of the general health status, a consequence of the infection more than of the severity of the respiratory symptoms, the development of an acute episode coincided with reduced intellectual functions and onset of a state of confusion. In 70% of the cases, this resulted in a loss of independence of variable importance--simple difficulty for moving around to major functional handicap. The infectious episode was cured or improved (persistence of minor signs not requiring specific treatment) in 94.3% of the cases with appropriate antibiotics: single-drug regimen in 93.7% give per os (75%) or intravenously (25%) using aminopenicillin (with or without a beta lactamase inhibitor) in 80% of the cases. Antibiotic treatment was associated with physical therapy in more than half the cases, and with general conticosteroids in 40%. The treatment scheme was modified in 9.4% of the cases (change of antibiotic in 6%).This survey confirms the high risk related to general conditions in elderly institutionalized patients who develop respiratory infection. More than the infection itself, the rapid degradation of the general health status, or decompensation of comorbid states can create life-threatening situations or favor the development of irreversible handicaps.