Determinants for hospitalization in " low-risk" community acquired pneumonia. A variable decision in managing community acquired pneumonia (CAP) is the initial site of care in-patient versus outpatient. These variations persist despite comprehensive practice guidelines. Patients with a Pneumonia Severity Index (PSI) score lower than seventy have low risk for complications and outpatient antibiotic management is recommended in this group. These patients are generally below the age of fifty years, non-nursing home residents, HIV negative and have no major cardiac, hepatic, renal or malignant diseases.A retrospective analysis of 296 low-risk CAP patients evaluated within a year one period at St. Agnes Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland was undertaken. All patients were assigned a PSI score. 208 (70%) were evaluated and discharged from the emergency department (E.D.) to complete outpatient antibiotic therapy, while 88 (30%) were hospitalized. Patients were sub-stratified into classes I-V according to PSI. A comparison of demographic, clinical, social and financial parameters was made between the E.D. discharged and hospitalized groups.Statistically significant differences in favor of the hospitalized group were noted for female gender (CI: 1.46-5.89, p= 0.0018), African Americans (CI: 0.31-0.73, p= 0.004), insurance coverage (CI: 0.19-0.63, p= 0.0034), temperature (CI: 0.04-0.09, p= 0.0001) and pulse rate (CI: 0.03-0.14, p= 0.0001). No statistically significant differences were observed between the two groups for altered mental status, hypotension, tachypnea, laboratory/radiological parameters and social indicators (p>0.05). The average length of stay for in-patients was 3.5 days at about eight time's higher cost than outpatient management. There was no difference in mortality or treatment failures between the two groups. The documentation rate and justifications for hospitalizing low risk CAP patients by admitting physicians was less than optimal.High fever, tachycardia, female gender, African- American race and medical insurance coverage are determinants for hospitalization among low risk CAP patients in our study. The average length of stay for in-patients was 3.5 days (3 to 5 days). The cost of in-patient care was about eight times higher than outpatient management. This study supports the recommendation of using the PSI for E.D evaluation of patients in appropriate social settings.