Pneumonia in HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected children in developing countries: epidemiology, clinical features, and management. Pneumonia is a leading cause of illness and death in children younger than 5 years in developing countries, accounting for approximately 20% of childhood deaths. The HIV epidemic has sharply increased the incidence, severity, and mortality of childhood pneumonia in the developing world, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. This article reviews recent findings on the epidemiology, clinical features, and management of HIV-infected and -uninfected children with pneumonia in developing countries.Bacterial infection remains a major cause of pneumonia mortality in HIV-infected children, a broader spectrum of pathogens including gram-negative infections and Pneumocystis jiroveci occurs. Mycobacterium tuberculosis is an important cause of acute pneumonia among children from high tuberculosis prevalence areas. Use of case management guidelines substantially reduces neonatal, infant, and under-5 mortality and pneumonia-specific mortality in developing countries. New advances in therapy include the use of short-course antibiotics and high-dose amoxicillin twice daily for ambulatory treatment of HIV-negative children with pneumonia. New preventive interventions include the development of conjugate vaccines against Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae, but these are not widely affordable nor available in developing countries. Despite a lower efficacy in HIV-infected children, these vaccines still protect against disease in a significant proportion of children. Available preventive interventions including micronutrient supplementation with zinc and vitamin A, and immunization as contained in the WHO Expanded Program of Immunization can substantially reduce the burden of childhood pneumonia.Urgent measures to implement existing available, effective interventions for prevention and treatment of childhood pneumonia and achieve high coverage rates in developing countries are needed.