Characteristics of Chlamydia trachomatis infection in hospitalized infants with lower respiratory tract infection. To study the epidemiology, presentation and laboratory findings of Chlamydia trachomatis pneumonia in hospitalized infants younger than 6 months.Between January 2001 and December 2005, infants younger than 6 months admitted to the children's medical center of Taipei Veterans General Hospital with the diagnosis of acute bronchiolitis, bronchopneumonia or pneumonia were prospectively studied. Chest radiograph findings were reviewed in all patients. Basic laboratory examinations performed included white blood cell count and eosinophil count. C. trachomatis was detected via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay antigen test and the titers of immunoglobulin G and immunoglobulin M by indirect immunoperoxidase assay.A total of 60 infants, 32 males and 28 females, were included. C. trachomatis infection was detected in 30% of patients (18/60). The median age was 2.5 months (range, birth to 6 months). Fever was not detected in 72% of patients (13/18). Only 22% (4/18) of these patients had the characteristic staccato cough. The mean duration of symptoms before admission was 8 days (range, 1 day to 2 months). Rhinorrhea was a prodromal symptom in 67% (12/18) of patients, with a mean pre-onset duration of 7 days (range, 1 to 14 days). Eighty three percent (15/18) of the patients had tachypnea, with a mean duration of 3.2 days (range, 1 to 7 days). Conjunctivitis was noted before admission in 6 patients (33%). Only peripheral eosinophils showed statistically significant difference between Chlamydia-positive and -negative disease (p=0.046), and may be clinically useful in cases of suspected C. trachomatis infection. Mixed infection with other pathogens including adenovirus, respiratory syncytial virus, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, cytomegalovirus and Streptococcus pneumoniae was found in 27% (5/18) of patients.C. trachomatis is not infrequent and plays an important role in infants younger than 6 months old hospitalized due to lower respiratory tract infection.