The influence of age and Rhodococcus equi infection on CD1 expression by equine antigen presenting cells. There is a distinct age-associated susceptibility of horses to Rhodococcus equi infection. Initial infection is thought to occur in the neonatal and perinatal period, and only foals less than 6 months of age are typically affected. R. equi is closely related and structurally similar to Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and causes similar pathologic lesions. Protective immune responses to M. tuberculosis involve classical major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-restricted T cells that recognize peptide antigen, as well as MHC-independent T cells that recognize mycobacterial lipid antigen presented by CD1 molecules. Given the structural similarity between these two pathogens and our previous observations regarding R. equi-specific, MHC-unrestricted cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), we developed 3 related hypotheses: (1) CD1 molecules are expressed on equine antigen presenting cells (APC), (2) CD1 expression on APC is less in foals compared to adults and (3) infection with live virulent R. equi induces up-regulation of CD1 on both adult and perinatal APC. CD1 expression was examined by flow cytometric analysis using a panel of monoclonal CD1 antibodies with different species and isoform specificities.Three CD1 antibodies specific for CD1b showed consistent cross reactivity with both foal and adult monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM). CD1b and MHC class II expression were significantly higher on adult MDM compared with foals. R. equi infected MDM showed significantly lower expression of CD1b, suggesting that infection with this bacterium induces down-regulation of CD1b on the cell surface. Histograms from dual antibody staining of peripheral blood mononuclear cells also revealed that 45-71% of the monocyte population stained positive for CD1b, and that the majority of these also co-expressed MHC II molecules, indicating that they were APC. The anti-CD1 antibodies showed no binding or minimal binding to bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL)-derived macrophages.The CD1b isoform is evolutionarily conserved, and is present on equine MDM, as well as on circulating blood monocytes. The unique susceptibility of foals to R. equi infection may be due in part to lower expression of CD1 and MHC class II, as observed in this study. The data also suggests that infection with R. equi induces down-regulation of CD1b on equine MDM. This may represent a novel mechanism by R. equi to avoid detection and killing of infected cells by the immune system, similar to that observed when human APC are infected with M. tuberculosis.