<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2015-01-07</DATELINE><TITLE>A Global Health Elective for US Medical Students: The 35 Year Experience of the State University of New York, Downstate Medical Center, School of Public Health</TITLE><BODY>The School of Public Health at the State University of New York, Downstate Medical Center has sponsored a 6–8 week global health elective for fourth year medical students since 1980. The purpose of this elective is to provide students with an opportunity to observe the health care and public health delivery systems in low-income countries, provide medical service and have a cross-cultural experience. Over the course of the past 35 years, 388 students have participated in this global health elective in more than 41 low-income countries. The most popular sites include the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, India, Kenya and Thailand. Overall, interest in this elective has persisted throughout the course of time, sometimes temporarily increasing or decreasing with outside factors, such as the events of 11 September 2001 and the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome in Asia. Recent annual applications for this elective have been as high as 44 out of a class of 200 students. Over the past 10 years, annual acceptance rates have varied, ranging from a low of 32 % in 2007–2008 to a high of 74 % in 2010–2011 and 2013–2014. Careful screening, including a written application, review of academic records and personal interviews has resulted in the selection of highly mature, adaptable and dedicated students who have performed well at overseas sites. Student rated satisfaction levels with this elective are almost universally high, with most rating it the best experience of their medical school years. Students undergo extensive preparation prior to their travel overseas, including a review of individual health and safety issues, travel and lodging, and the nature of the host country culture, health care system and assignment site. Downstate medical students are especially experienced in cross-cultural understanding because of the unusual diversity of the patient population in Brooklyn, and the diversity of local hospital staff and the medical school class. The Alumni Fund of the College of Medicine has steadfastly supported this elective with both a philosophical commitment and financial grants to help defray costs since the very early years. The Dr. Michael and Lona B. Kennéy Endowment, the Joshua H. Weiner endowment, and the LSK Foundation have also provided financial support for this elective. Throughout the course of this elective, overseas preceptors have willingly given of their time and institutional resources to make these experiences available and meaningful for our students.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>