<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2007-10-06</DATELINE><TITLE>Co-expressing GP5 and M proteins under different promoters in recombinant modified vaccinia virus ankara (rMVA)-based vaccine vector enhanced the humoral and cellular immune responses of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV)</TITLE><BODY>The porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) has three major structural proteins which designated as GP5, M, and N. Protein GP5 and M have been considered very important to arouse the humoral and cellular immune responses against PRRSV infection and proposed to be the excellent candidate proteins in the design of PRRS bioengineering vaccine. There were some attempts on expressing GP5 or M in DNA vaccine and adenovirus to arouse humoral and cellular immune responses, but few papers have been reported on that the immune response can be difference because of the expression patterns of GP5 and M proteins in the recombinant virus. In this article, four recombinant viruses that expressed GP5 and M proteins of PRRSV in the modified vaccinia virus ankara (MVA) with different expression patterns were made. In these recombinant virus (rMVAs), GP5 and M proteins were expressed in MVA in the same virus but under the control of two promoters (rMVA-GP5/M), or as a fusion protein under one promoter (rMVA-GP5-M), or separately (rMVA-GP5 and rMVA-M). The humoral and cellular immune responses for the four recombinant viruses were evaluated with mouse model. Every mouse was inoculated with 5 × 10(5) TCID(50) of the different rMVAs and boosted 3 weeks later. Neutralizing antibody titers for each group were detected with virus neutralization test assay weekly after the primary inoculation for 13 weeks to evaluate the humoral immune response. The production of gamma interferon (IFN-γ), interleukin-2 (IL-2), and interleukin-4 (IL-4) was detected in splenocytes of rMVA-inoculated mice at 30, 60, and 90 days post inoculation to evaluate the cellular immune response. Results showed that rMVA-GP5 and rMVA-M cannot induce obvious humoral and cellular immune responses; rMVA-GP5-M inoculated group developed better immune responses than rMVA-GP5 and rMVA-M inoculated groups; however, mice inoculated with rMVA-GP5/M maintained the strongest cellular response against PRRS and consistently enhanced the anti-PRRSV humoral responses. The strategy of co-expressing PRRSV GP5 and M protein in MVA under the control of different promoters might be an attractive method for future PRRSV vaccine design.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>