Chlamydia trachomatis and human papillomavirus infection in Indian women with sexually transmitted diseases and cervical precancerous and cancerous lesions. Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and anogenital cancers are the major health problems in Indian women but no reliable estimate of the prevalence of either genital chlamydial infection or human papillomavirus (HPV) infection in STD patients is available. The aim of this study was to detect the frequency of Chlamydia trachomatis and the most prevalent high-risk HPV type 16 (HPV 16) infection in Indian women, with STDs and precancerous and cancerous lesions of the uterine cervix by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and their comparison with those of conventional serology and antigen tests used for C. trachomatis detection.Endocervical swabs or scrapes were collected from 50 women with STDs and 30 normal healthy women attending the STD clinics of Smt. Sucheta Kripalani Hospital, New Delhi. Scraped cervical cell specimens were also collected from 50 women with precancerous and cancerous lesions of the uterine cervix. Detection of C. trachomatis and HPV was carried out by PCR using chlamydia and HPV genome-specific oligonucleotide primers. The detection of chlamydial antigen and IgG-specific antibodies was carried out by enzyme immunoassay (EIA) and serological enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), respectively.A chlamydia plasmid-based PCR assay detected 50% (25 of 50) positivity of C. trachomatis in STD patients and HPV 16 DNA was found in 30% (15 of 50) of these cases which are significantly higher than those found in healthy controls. The PCR estimate of chlamydia was found to be higher than its reported frequency by tissue culture. The EIA could detect chlamydial antigen in only 13 cases (26%) while serological ELISA revealed evidence of chlamydia IgG-specific antibodies in 26 (52%) cases. Interestingly, in women with precancerous and cancerous lesions, the rate of HPV 16 infection was very high (52% and 72%, respectively), whereas the frequency of chlamydia infection was found to be 12-22% only. Occurrence of other sexually transmitted agents was also evaluated in the women.This is the first PCR estimate of genital chlamydial (50%) and HPV 16 (30%) infection in STD patients and women with precancerous and cancerous lesions of the uterine cervix in India. The PCR method seems to be a good alternative to tissue culture.