Comparative analysis of a liquid-based Pap test and concurrent HPV DNA assay of residual samples. A study of 608 cases. To retrospectively study the HPV DNA assay of residual samples from the ThinPrep Pap Test (Cytyc Corporation, Boxborough, Massachusetts, U.S.A.) PreserveCyt (Cytyc) vial as a quality improvement (QI) indicator for management of patients with abnormal cervical cytology.Six hundred eight residual sample vials of liquid-based Pap-Test specimens were selected for the study based on Pap-test results from October 1998 to March 2001. The specimen vials were forwarded to the reference laboratory (American Medical Laboratories, Chantilly, Virginia, U.S.A.) for HPV DNA assay using the Hybrid Capture System method (Digene Corporation, Gaithersburg, Maryland, U.S.A.). At the time of HPV DNA assay, the residual samples were between 8 days to 10 months old, and each vial contained 4 mL. Of the 608 study cases, 76 were WNL, 115 contained BCC, 172 contained ASCUS, 179 were LSIL and 66 were HSIL. In this study, the 191 WNL and BCC cases were designated as the disease-free control group. The HPV DNA typing results were reported as low-risk, high/intermediate-risk or HPV DNA "not detected" HPV types. The HPV DNA testing results were compared to the Pap-Test diagnoses and statistical analysis performed.The following information reflects the percentage of HPV DNA-positive cases based on the Pap-Test diagnoses: 16.2% in WNL and BCC, 51.1% in ASCUS, 94.4% in LSIL and 98.4% in HSIL. Sensitivity (95.5%), specificity (83.7%), false negative value (4.4%), false positive value (16.2%) and predictive value of a positive (88.3%) and negative (93.5%) Pap-Test were calculated on the basis of HPV DNA testing results for 436 cases that were diagnosed as either SIL or negative (WNL and BCC). ASCUS (172) Pap-Test cases were considered borderline--disease positive and excluded from statistical analysis.The HPV DNA assay of residual samples from ThinPrep Pap-Test liquid-based specimens is an objective adjunct to the gynecologic cytology QI protocol and is the gold standard reference test for triaging women with equivocal cytologic diagnoses. The great value of HPV DNA testing is its high sensitivity (95.5%), specificity (83.7%) and negative predictive value (93.5%). HPV DNA testing results can be used as a tool to better determine the need for referrals for colposcopic biopsy, especially for patients with an ASCUS diagnosis. The residual Pap-Test specimens are stable and reproducible for HPV DNA typing. A working flow chart for our gynecologic cytology QI program was produced from the Pap-Test and HPV DNA assay results. This offer presents the added benefit of minimizing the problem of sample variation. The prevalence of HPV infection was 16.2% in this study.