Human papillomavirus DNA in urine samples of women with or without cervical cancer and their male partners compared with simultaneously collected cervical/penile smear or biopsy specimens. Infection of specific types of high-risk human papillomaviruses (HPVs) causes cervical cancer in women. Conventional test for genital HPV infection requires collection of scraped cervical cells or biopsy specimens, which involves invasive procedures. Utility of non-invasive urine sampling for detection of HPV in women and their male sexual partners is controversial. The validation of this urine-based HPV DNA test is of immense value not only in screening large population and children but also for HPV vaccine monitoring in adolescents. We examined the frequency of high risk HPV types 16 and 18 in simultaneously collected urine samples and cervical scrapes or biopsy specimens from women with cervical cancer and their single lifetime male sexual partners in order to validate the utility of urine sampling as a reliable non-invasive method for detection of genital HPV infection. Thirty women with invasive cervical cancer and their husbands along with 30 age-matched normal healthy women including their husbands were recruited for the study. Cervical biopsies/scrapes from women subjects and penile scrapes from their husbands and urine samples from all of them were collected before taking biopsy or scrapes. HPV-L1 consensus primer as well as high-risk HPV (HPV 16 and 18) type-specific oligo-primers were used for PCR detection of HPV DNA. The total frequency of HPV in women with cervical cancer was found to be 83% (25/30) while it was only 67% (20/30) in their male partners but there was virtually no difference in results between urine and scrape or tissue biopsy either in women or their male partners. Although healthy women and their husbands showed similar frequency of HPV infection both in urine and scrape samples, there was a significant difference (p=0.05) in the prevalence of high risk HPV type 16 in women with cervical cancer (70%) and their male partners (30%). Similar was the trend between control women and their male partners. The results also showed a very high prevalence of HPV type 16 among Indian women with cervical cancer while its frequency was significantly low in their single lifetime male partners. The case by case matching of HPV positivity and negativity between urine and cervical/penile scrapes or biopsies obtained from women and their male partners demonstrated that the non-invasive urine sampling can be reliably used for screening genital HPV infection in both men and women.