Age, period, and birth cohort-specific effects on cervical cancer mortality rates in Japanese women and projections for mortality rates over 20-year period (2012-2031). Methods that improve detection of serious cervical lesions while minimizing
                    excess screening are the key to advancing cervical cancer prevention.To examine the evidence about benefits and harms of screening among older women
                    (ages 65 and older) and those who have had hysterectomies, and to examine the
                    diagnostic performance of new technologies and human papilloma virus (HPV)
                    testing for detecting cervical lesions.We identified English-language articles on cervical neoplasia, cervical
                    dysplasia, and screening from a comprehensive search of the MEDLINE database
                    from 1995 through June 2000. In addition, we used published systematic reviews,
                    the second We included articles that reported on screening for squamous cell carcinoma of
                    the cervix if they included the age distribution of the study population and
                    presented analyses stratified by age or if they included hysterectomy status as
                    a covariate. For diagnostic tools, we required that the test be used as part of
                    a screening strategy, that the method be compared with a reference standard, and
                    that all cells of a 2x2 table can be completed.We extracted the following data from articles addressing screening among older
                    women and those who have had a hysterectomy: study design, objectives, location
                    and timeframe, source of the data (e.g., population-based registry),
                    participants, screening program used, outcomes and measures, and results
                    relevant to age and screening interval. For articles about diagnostic tests, we
                    extracted study design, test methods, location, patient population, outcome
                    measures (emphasizing documentation of the reference standard), prevalence of
                    lesions, and test characteristics including sensitivity, specificity, and
                    predictive values. We used scoring checklists to summarize strengths of the
                    publications we also evaluated the validity of each article and the overall
                    quality of the evidence.The evidence about age and hysterectomy is observational, predominantly from
                    population- or care-based data. The findings are consistent: risk of cervical
                    cancer or abnormalities falls with age high-grade and more severe lesions are
                    detected in fewer than 1 per 1,000 Pap tests among women older than 60 who have
                    had prior screeningThe yield of screening among older women who have been previously screened
                    decreases with age if recommendations are not modified, older women are
                    disproportionately likely to have evaluations for false-positive findings. The
                    prior recommendation of the US Preventive Services Task Force to discontinue Pap
                    testing after hysterectomy for benign disease is supported. For making decisions
                    about screening modality in US populations, evidence about these new
                    technologies for cytology screening and HPV testing is currently limited.
                    Controlled trials and prospective cost evaluation of new screening strategies in
                    each of these areas are required. Important trials will be completed in 2001
                    that may clarify our conclusions.We aimed to determine the effects of age, period, and birth cohort on cervical cancer mortality rate trends in Japanese women, by age-period-cohort (APC) analysis. Additionally, we analyzed projected mortality rates.We obtained data on the number of cervical cancer deaths in Japanese women from 1975-2011 from the national vital statistics and census population data. A cohort table of mortality rate data was analyzed on the basis of a Bayesian APC model. We also projected the mortality rates for the 2012-2031 period.The period effect was relatively limited, compared with the age and cohort effects. The age effect increased suddenly from 25-29 to 45-49 years of age and gently increased thereafter. An analysis of the cohort effect on mortality rate trends revealed a steep decreasing slope for birth cohorts born from 1908-1940 and a subsequent sudden increase after 1945. The mortality rate projections indicated increasing trends from 40 to 74 years of age until the year 2031.The age effect increased from 25-29 years of age. This could be attributable to the high human papilloma virus (HPV) infection risk and the low cervical cancer screening rate. The cohort effect changed from decreasing to increasing after the early 1940s. This might be attributable to the spread of cervical cancer screening and treatment before 1940 and the high HPV infection risk and reduced cervical cancer screening rate after 1945. The projected mortality rate indicated an increasing trend until the year 2031.