History of the development of screening tests for cervical cancer. Cervical cancer (CC) is one of the best known malignancies. Currently, it is accepted that the etiological factor is persistent infection with high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV). Even before the identification of its etiological factors, methods such as Pap cytology and colposcopy were developed as tools for early diagnosis on CC and its precursor lesions. At the time when such tests were being developed, they were not fully accepted by the scientific community of the time however, as time went by, the dissemination of knowledge, and more extensive application, these tests were finally included within the international guidelines. The implementation of programs with adequate coverage and quality allowed a significant reduction in the incidence and mortality of CC. However this did not occur widely, and CC is still a public health problem in developing countries. From the epidemiological and molecular viewpoint, knowledge on HPVs laid the foundations for the development of new prevention strategies based on vaccination and molecular detection of the causal agent, currently accepted as strategies for primary and secondary prevention. It is expected that the implementation of these strategies will have a greater impact on the control on CC and other malignancies associated with HPV infection. El cáncer cervicouterino (CaCU) es una de las neoplasias mejor conocidas actualmente es aceptado que el factor etiológico es la infección persistente por virus de papiloma humano (VPH) de alto riesgo. Sin embargo, aun antes de que se hubiera identificado el agente etiológico, se desarrollaron métodos, como la prueba citológica de Papanicolaou y la colposcopia, como herramientas para el diagnóstico temprano del CaCU y sus lesiones precursoras. En los inicios del desarrollo de ambas pruebas, estas no fueron del todo aceptadas por la comunidad científica de la época. Con el paso del tiempo, la divulgación del conocimiento y la aplicación más extensiva, se logró la aceptación y la inclusión de dichas pruebas en un gran número de guías a nivel internacional. La implementación de programas con cobertura adecuada y de calidad dio como resultado una reducción significativa en la incidencia y mortalidad por CaCU. Sin embargo, esto no se dio de manera generalizada y en países en vías de desarrollo es aún un problema de salud pública. El conocimiento sobre los VPH, desde el punto de vista epidemiológico y molecular, sentó las bases para el desarrollo de nuevas estrategias de prevención, basadas en la vacunación y en la detección molecular del agente causal, actualmente aceptadas como estrategias para prevención primaria y secundaria. Se espera que la aplicación de dichas estrategias tenga un impacto mayor en el control del CaCU y de otras neoplasias asociadas a la infección por VPH.