Detection of identical Hodgkin-Reed Sternberg cell specific immunoglobulin gene rearrangements in a patient with Hodgkin's disease of mixed cellularity subtype at primary diagnosis and in relapse two and a half years later. The malignant nature of Hodgkin-Reed Sternberg (H-RS) cells has been questioned due to their scarcity in lymphoma tissues. Recently, using micromanipulation of H-RS cells and single cell PCR evidence was obtained that H-RS cells represent a clonal B-cell population. In these studies H-RS cells were isolated from each one lymph node for a given case. In classical Hodgkin's disease (HD) it thus could not be ruled out that H-RS cell clonality reflected a locally restricted clonal proliferation. We analysed biopsy specimens from a patient suffering from HD for the presence of clonally related H-RS cells at primary diagnosis and during relapse of the disease.In 1994 the H-RS cell line L1236 was generated from the peripheral blood of a patient suffering from a disseminating relapse of HD of mixed cellularity subtype. The patient had relapsed despite intensive treatment including high dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation. The clonal identity of this cell line with H-RS cells in situ was proven by amplifying identical Ig gene rearrangements of the cell line as well as of single H-RS cells picked from the patients bone marrow. Primers covering the CDR3 region were chosen from the H-RS cell specific VH1 gene rearrangement to detect H-RS cells of the identical clone by amplifying the rearranged VH1 genes in tissue samples obtained during disseminating relapsing disease and at primary diagnosis of HD in 1991.The H-RS cell specific DNA sequence was detected in all affected tissues analysed including the cervical lymph node which has been exstirpated at primary diagnosis.This finding indicates the existence of a clonal H-RS cell population during the first manifestation of HD and persistence and dissemination of this clone despite aggressive treatment. Thus, in the described case the malignant nature of H-RS cells defined by dissemination and recurrence of the identical H-RS cell clone in relapsing disease is proven.