Cervical facet dislocation: techniques for ventral reduction and stabilization. To demonstrate the safety and utility of one surgical approach, the authors reviewed their experience with the ventral surgical approach for decompression, reduction, and stabilization in 10 patients with either unilateral or bilateral cervical facet dislocation.Six patients presented with unilateral cervical facet dislocation and four patients with bilateral cervical facet dislocation. There were six male and four female patients who ranged in age from 17 to 72 years (average 37.1 years). The level of facet dislocation was C4-5 in one, C5-6 in four, and C6-7 in five patients. Three patients presented with a complete spinal cord injury (SCI), three patients with an incomplete SCI, three with radicular symptoms or myeloradiculopathy, and one patient was neurologically intact. All patients underwent plain radiography, magnetic resonance imaging, and computerized tomography evaluation of the cervical spine. All patients had sustained significant ligamentous injury with minimum or no bone disruption. All patients underwent ventral decompressive surgery, reduction of the dislocation, and stabilization of the cervical spine. Techniques for performing ventral reduction of unilateral or bilateral cervical facet dislocation are described. Decompression, reduction, and stabilization of the cervical spine via the ventral approach was accomplished in all but one patient. This patient underwent a ventral decompressive procedure and an attempt at ventral reduction and subsequent dorsal reduction and fusion in which a lateral mass screw plate fixation system was used this was followed by ventral placement of instrumentation and fusion. There were no surgery-related complications. Postoperative neurological status was unchanged in four patients and improved in six patients. No patient experienced neurological deterioration after undergoing this surgical approach.The authors conclude that a ventral surgical decompression, reduction, and stabilization procedure provides a safe and effective alternative for the treatment of patients with unilateral or bilateral cervical facet dislocation without significant bone disruption.