Clinical experience with functional electrical stimulation-assisted gait with Parastep in spinal cord-injured patients. Clinical evaluation of the Parastep method, a six-channel transcutaneous functional electrical stimulation device, in spinal cord-injured patients.To investigate the motor performances of this new technique regarding energy expenditure and to evaluate its advantages and limitations, especially in social activities involving ambulation.This study was conducted in 15 thoracic spine-injured patients. The lesion was complete except in two patients. The gait ability and the functional use were judged clinically. Energy cost was evaluated from heart rate, peak oxygen uptake, and lactatemia.Thirteen patients completed the training (mean: 20 sessions) and achieved independent ambulation with a walker. The mean walking distance, without rest, was 52.8 +/- 69 m, and the mean speed was 0.15 +/- 0.14 m/sec. One patient with incomplete lesion, who had been nonambulatory for 8 months after the injury, became able to walk without functional electrical stimulation after five sessions. The follow-up was 40 +/- 11 months. Five patients pursued using functional electrical stimulation-assisted gait as a means of physical exercise but not for ambulation in social activities. The patients experienced marked psychological benefits, with positive changes in their way of life. In three subjects, a comparison of physiologic responses to exercise between a progressive arm ergometer test and a walking test with the Parastep (Sigmedics, Inc., Northfield, IL) at a speed of 0.1 m/sec was performed, showing that the heart rate, the peak oxygen uptake, and lactatemia during gait were close to those obtained at the end of the maximal test on the ergometer.In spite of its ease of operation and good cosmetic acceptance, the Parastep approach has very limited applications for mobility in daily life, because of its modest performance associated with high metabolic cost and cardiovascular strain. However, it can be proposed as a resource to keep physical and psychological fitness in patients with spinal cord injury.