Outcome in neurologically impaired patients with craniovertebral junction tuberculosis: results of combined anteroposterior surgery. The authors studied the immediate and long-term outcome after transoral decompression, occipitocervical fusion, and antituberculous therapy (ATT) in patients who had neurological deficits due to craniovertebral junction (CVJ) tuberculosis.In this retrospective study, the authors reviewed the management and outcome in nine consecutive patients in whom features of spinal cord compression were observed and CVJ tuberculosis was diagnosed between 1993 and 1999. They ranged in age from 9 to 55 years. Onset of symptoms was acute or subacute and rapidly progressive (median 4 months, range 1-12 months). Patients presented with neck pain (89%), progressive limb weakness (89%), sensory symptoms (22%), and urinary dysfunction (33%). The mean preoperative functional grade based on the Nurick Scale was 3.4 (range 1-5). The disease caused reducible atlantoaxial dislocation (AAD) in three patients (33%), irreducible AAD in two (22%), basilar impression (BI) in one (11%), AAD with BI in one (11%), and C-2 vertebral body (VB) destruction without dislocation in two (22%). Surgery was performed in all cases. Five patients (56%) underwent transoral odontoidectomy, two (22%) transoral decompression of retropharyngeal abscess and granulation tissue, and two (22%) transoral decompression of abscess and diseased parts of the C-2 VB. All patients then underwent occipitocervical (occiput-C3) fusion in which a contoured Steinmann pin and iliac bone grafts were used. Postoperatively, A17 was prescribed for 18 months. In the immediate postoperative period, function in these patients improved from a mean Nurick grade of 3.4 to 2.3 (p < 0.01). At long-term follow-up examination (median 18.8 months, range 7-46 months) function improved from a mean Nurick grade of 3.4 to 0.3 (range 0-2) (p < 0.001).Patients with CVJ tuberculosis with features of cervical myelopathy are ideally managed with transoral decompressive procedures followed by occipitocervical fusion because this therapy provides immediate neurological improvement, stability, and allows early mobilization. The long-term prognosis in patients with this disease is excellent provided it is treated with appropriate surgical intervention(s) and with adequate duration of ATT.