Cervicogenic dysfunction in muscle contraction headache and migraine: a descriptive study. The prevalence and nature of findings of cervicogenic dysfunction is explored in subjects with muscle contraction/tension-type (MCH) headache and common migraine without aura (CM).Descriptive survey.Chiropractic outpatient research clinic.Forty-seven (47) subjects, aged 18-55 with two categories of benign headache, were studied: MCH (tension-type) n = 19 (6 males, 13 females) and CM (without aura), n = 28 (3 males, 25 females). Subjects were recruited as part of an intervention trial and, thus, form a consecutive sample of patients. The present findings were elicited as part of the initial assessment.No therapeutic intervention is reported.Standardized headache history plain film and dynamic spinal X raysFor CM, the most prevalent headache locations were frontal (81%) and occipital (78%). Neck pain and upper back pain accompanied headache in 90% and 41% of subjects, respectively. For MCH, the most prevalent headache locations were occipital (87%) and frontal (81%). Neck and upper back pain accompanied headache in 100% and 27%, respectively, of all subjects. For the total group, 77% of all subjects and 89% of females exhibited a marked reduction, absence or reversal of the normal cervical lordosis. Ninety-seven percent of all subjects exhibited, on dynamic X-ray studies, at least one significant abnormality of segmental mobility from C1 to C7, while 43% exhibited abnormalities at four or more segments. Segmental motion at C0-C1 was reduced in 90% of subjects in flexion and 70% of subjects in extension. On motion palpation, 84% of CM and MCH subjects were found to have at least two major fixations from C0 to C2. On pressure algometry, 92% of CM and 85% of MCH had at least one verifiable tender point (TP) in the upper cervical region. The most common locations for TPs were mid-cervical (C2-C3), lateral occipital and suboccipital.Both MCH and CM subjects demonstrate high occurrences of: a) occipital and neck pain during headaches b) tender points in the upper cervical region