Unilateral cervical facet fractures with subluxation: injury patterns and treatment. This is a retrospective study of patients with unilateral cervical facet fractures from a Level I academic trauma center.We sought to examine fracture patterns involving only the facets, to examine the incidence of associated neurologic and vascular injuries, and to determine optimum management strategies for these injuries.Most of the literature regarding unilateral cervical facet injuries has resulted from studies evaluating dislocated locked facets, "fracture-dislocations," or fractures of the lateral mass and pedicle.We retrospectively reviewed our experience with unilateral fractures of the facets, identifying 25 cases over a 5-year period. Presenting history, neurologic examination, imaging findings, method of reduction, interval to surgery, type of surgery, and evaluation for vascular injuries were recorded. Fusion was assessed by plain radiographs and computed tomography scans at follow-up.All 25 patients were treated operatively. Ten of the fractures involved the superior articular process, 13 involved the inferior articular process, and 2 cases involved both. The most commonly affected level was at C6/7. Twenty-one of the 25 patients underwent anterior stabilization, 3 underwent posterior stabilization, and 1 underwent anterior-posterior stabilization. Eleven patients underwent diagnostic 4-vessel angiography, revealing 2 patients with vertebral artery injuries. Average follow-up was 11.5 months. There were no identifiable nonunions.We conclude the following: (a) anterior discectomy and fusion with a static (constrained) plating system is appropriate treatment for this type of injury, (b) in the absence of significant neurologic deficit with residual canal or foraminal stenosis, preoperative closed reduction is not necessary, (c) a small percentage of these patients will have vertebral artery injury, thus warranting screening with 16-slice computed tomographic angiography.