Functional outcome of thoracolumbar burst fractures managed with hyperextension casting or bracing and early mobilization. A retrospective study to review the results of unstable thoracolumbar burst fractures managed with casting or bracing and early ambulation in neurologically healthy patients.To determine the clinical outcome of patients with unstable burst fractures of the thoracolumbar spine treated without surgery, and to identify any variables that may adversely influence the final outcome.The management of unstable fractures of the thoracolumbar spine as described by Bedbrook involves a period of recumbency for 6-8 weeks followed by gradual mobilization. Newer techniques of surgical stabilization of the fracture and decompression of the neural elements have become popular because immediate stability of the spine is created and because the need for prolonged bedrest and hospitalization is eliminated. There have been only three reports in the literature describing the nonoperative management of these fractures with early mobilization some authors believe that this is appropriate only if the posterior column is intact. The results reported in the literature of nonoperative management of thoracolumbar burst fractures have indicated that this is an effective method of management.A retrospective review of 26 patients with unstable burst fractures in the thoracolumbar region (T11-L2) was performed follow-up evaluation was obtained from 24 patients. Clinical follow-up examination was performed by the use of a questionnaire in which the patients were asked to rate their pain, ability to work, ability to perform in recreational activities, and their overall satisfaction with treatment.Mean follow-up time for the 24 patients was 34.3 months. Mean duration of hospitalization was 8.2 days those patients who did not have injuries other than their spine fracture had a mean hospitalization time of 5.9 days. Kyphotic deformity could be corrected with hyperextension casting but tended to recur during the course of mobilization and healing. No correlation was found between kyphosis and clinical outcome. At final follow-up evaluation, 19 patients (79%) had little or no painNonoperative management of thoracolumbar burst fractures with hyperextension casting or bracing was proven to be a safe and effective method of treatment in selected patients. Clinical results were favorable no neurologic deterioration was observed