<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2017-07-19</DATELINE><TITLE>A Novel Strategy for Bitter Taste Masking of Gankeshuangqing Dispersible Tablets Based on Particle Coating Technology</TITLE><BODY>BACKGROUND: Currently, acute upper respiratory tract infections (AURTIs) are increasingly becoming a significant health burden. Gankeshuangqing dispersible tablets (GKSQDT) which have a good effect on treating AURTIs. GKSQDT is composed of baicalin and andrographolide. However, its severe bitterness limits application of patients. Due to the addition of plentiful accessories, common masking methods are unsuitable for GKSQDT. It is thus necessary to develop a new masking method. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The Previous study showed that baicalin was less bitter than andrographolide. Thus, particle coating technology was adapted to prepare composite particles that baicalin coated on the surface of andrographolide to decrease bitterness. Initially, particle size of baicalin and coating time of composite was investigated to prepare composite. Then, scanning electron microscopy, wettability, and infrared (IR) spectrogram were used to characterize the microstructure of composite. Furthermore, electronic tongue test, animal preference experiment, and human sensory test were applied to evaluate the masking effect. RESULTS: To produce composite, baicalin should be ground in vibromill for 6 min. Then, andrographolide fine powder was added to grind together for 6 min. Contact angle of composite was smaller than mixture, and more similar to baicalin. Other physical characterization including microstructure, wettability, and IR also suggested that andrographolide was successfully coated by baicalin superfine. Furthermore, taste-masking test indicated taste-masked tablets was less bitter than original tablets. CONCLUSION: The study indicated that particle coating technology can be used for taste masking of GKSQDT without adding other substance. Moreover, it provides a new strategy of taste masking for national medicine. SUMMARY: A new strategy to mask bitterness without adding any other substance based on coating technology was provided. The masking effect was confirmed by electronic tongue test, animal preference experiment and human sensory test. Abbreviations used: AURTIs: Acute Upper Respiratory Tract Infections; GSQDT: Gankeshuangqing Dispersible Tablets; IR: Infrared Spectrogram; LHPC: Low-substituted Hydroxypropyl Cellulose; CAs: Contact Angles; FTIR: Fourier Transform Infrared Spectra.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>