Optimization of urinary FDG excretion during PET imaging. Accumulation of fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) activity in the urine interferes with the visualization of pelvic and, sometimes, abdominal abnormalities. Although this is a major problem, there are few data on the physiological variables affecting FDG urinary excretion that are critical to minimizing urinary FDG interference during PET imaging.The excretion of FDG in urine was determined during 90 min in four groups of rats (n = 24) under the following conditions: normal, hydrated, hydrochlorothiazide treated and phlorizin treated. FDG clearance rates were measured in both normal and phlorizin-treated animals and compared with the glomeruler filtration rate measured with 99mTc-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid. We measured FDG excretion in 10 patients who had no known renal disease and were undergoing PET scanning (divided into two groups: hydrated and dehydrated) to relate the animal data to humans.The hydrated and phlorizin-treated animals had the highest excretion of FDG (39.68+/-5.00 % injected dose (%ID) and 45.64+/-9.77 %ID, respectively). Animals given the hydrochlorothiazide had the highest urinary volume, but the percentage excreted was comparable with the normal rats. Measurement of the clearance of FDG in animals before and after the administration of phlorizin determined the amount of FDG reabsorbed in the proximal tubules to be 56%+/-9.15%. The hydrated patients had a higher excretion of FDG than dehydrated patients (16.98+/-1.99 %ID versus 14.27+/-1.00 %ID, P < 0.021), and the volume of urine voided was significantly higher (P < 0.020).Hydrochlorothiazide increases urine volume without enhancing FDG excretion. The hydration of patients before PET scanning may lead to more FDG reaching the bladder. Reduction of bladder activity by more frequent voiding facilitated by increased urine volume in hydrated patients may be offset by increased delivery of FDG to the bladder. A preferable means of increasing urinary volume without increasing delivery of FDG to the bladder may be the use of a diuretic.