A three-dimensional theoretical model incorporating spatial detection uncertainty in continuous detector PET. In this paper, we will describe a theoretical model of the spatial uncertainty for a line of response, due to the imperfect localization of events on the detector heads of a positron emission tomography (PET) camera. The forward acquisition problem is modelled by a Gaussian distribution of the position of interaction on a detector head, centred at the measured position. The a posteriori probability that an event originates from a certain point in the field of view (FOV) is calculated by integrating all the possible lines of response (LORs) through this point, weighted with the Gaussian detection likelihood at the LOR's end points. We have calculated these a posteriori probabilities both for perpendicular and oblique coincidences. For the oblique coincidence case it was necessary to incorporate the effect of the crystal thickness in the calculations. We found in the perpendicular incidence case as well as in the oblique incidence case that the probability density function cannot be analytically expressed in a closed form, and it was thus calculated by means of numerical integration. A Gaussian was fit to the transversal profiles of this function for a given distance to the detectors. From these fits, we can conclude that the profiles can be accurately approximated by a Gaussian, both for perpendicular and oblique coincidences. The FWHM reaches a maximum at the detector heads, and decreases towards the centre of the FOV, as was expected. Afterwards we extended this two-dimensional model to three dimensions, thus incorporating the spatial uncertainty in both transversal directions. This theoretical model was then evaluated and a very good agreement was found with theoretical calculations and with geometric Monte Carlo simulations. Possible improvements for the above-described incorporation of crystal thickness are discussed. Therefore a detailed Monte Carlo study has been performed in order to investigate the interaction probability of photons of different energies along their path in several detector materials dedicated to PET. Finally two approaches for the incorporation of this theoretical model in reconstruction algorithms are outlined.