Value of SPECT/CT for detection and anatomic localization of sentinel lymph nodes before laparoscopic sentinel node lymphadenectomy in prostate carcinoma. Laparoscopic evaluation of sentinel nodes is useful for staging prostate cancer, but preoperative localization of deep abdominal sentinel nodes with planar lymphoscintigraphy is difficult. We evaluated the value of SPECT/CT for detecting and localizing sentinel nodes in prostate cancer.(99m)Tc-nanocolloid was injected peri- and intratumorally, guided by transrectal ultrasonography, in 46 patients with prostate cancer of intermediate prognosis. Patients underwent planar imaging after 15 min and 2 h, SPECT/CT after 2 h, and laparoscopic sentinel node lymphadenectomy on the same day. SPECT was fused with CT and analyzed using 2-dimensional orthogonal slicing and 3-dimensional volume rendering. We evaluated the number of extra sentinel nodes found by SPECT/CT, the number of sentinel nodes found by SPECT/CT outside the area of the extended pelvic lymphadenectomy, and the anatomic information provided by SPECT/CT. Furthermore, we classified the value of the additional SPECT/CT images into 3 categories (no advantage, presumable advantage, and definite advantage) according to the extra anatomic information given and whether additional sentinel nodes were found by SPECT/CT.The patients had a mean age of 64 y (range, 53-74 y) and received a mean injected dose of 218 MBq (range, 147-286 MBq). The sentinel node visualization rate was 91% (42 patients) for planar imaging and 98% (45 patients) for SPECT/CT. In 29 of the 46 patients (63%), SPECT/CT revealed additional sentinel nodes (especially lymph nodes near the injection area) not seen on planar imaging. In 7 patients, those additional sentinel nodes were positive for metastasis (being the exclusive metastatic sentinel node in 4 patients). Overall, 15 patients (33%) had positive sentinel nodes. Sentinel nodes outside the area of extended pelvic lymphadenectomy were found in 16 patients (35%), whereas in 56% of these patients those nodes were not seen on planar imaging. Performing SPECT/CT had no advantage in 13% of the patients, a presumable advantage in 24%, and a definite advantage in 63%. Urologic surgeons used the SPECT/CT images to guide their trocar insertion sites and sentinel node finding with the probe.More sentinel nodes can be detected with SPECT/CT than with planar imaging alone. In comparison with planar imaging, SPECT/CT especially reveals extra sentinel nodes near the prostate and outside the area of the extended pelvic lymphadenectomy. Furthermore, the modality provides useful additional information about the anatomic location of sentinel nodes within and outside the pelvic area, leading to improved intraoperative sentinel node identification.