Comparison of left ventricular functional parameters obtained from three different commercial automated software cardiac quantification program packages and their intraobserver reproducibility. ECG-gated myocardial perfusion scintigraphy (MPS) can be used to determine several cardiac functional parameters (e.g., left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), end-diastolic volume (EDV), and end-systolic volume (ESV)). In this study, we aimed to compare these cardiac functional parameters calculated by the following cardiac quantification programs: Emory Cardiac Toolbox (ECTb), Quantitative Gated SPECT (QGS), and Myometrix. We also evaluated reproducibility of the cardiac programs.Fifty-seven patients (27 male, 30 female) at Elazig Research and Training Hospital from 2008 to 2009 were included in this study. In all patients, (99m)Tc-MIBI ECG-Gated (8-bin frame mode) myocardial perfusion scintigraphies were performed. By using 3 different cardiac quantification programs (ECTb, QGS, and Myometrix) LVEF, EDV, and ESV were calculated. The same raw data of MPS images were reprocessed at different time periods, and these 3 parameters were recalculated. LVEF, EDV, and ESV yielded by 3 different programs were compared for interprogram variability assessment, and parameters calculated at two different time periods were compared to evaluate intraprogram reproducibility.There were statistically significant differences between ECTb, QGS, and Myometrix programs for LVEF, EDV, and ESV (p < 0.001). There was also a statistically significant correlation between LVEF and EDV (p < 0.001, r = 0.546 p < 0.001, r = 0.45, respectively), but no statistically significant correlation was present between the ESV values (p > 0.05, r = 0.09). Statistically significant differences were not found between the values of LVEF, EDV, and ESV obtained from the first and second reconstruction analysis of 3 cardiac quantification programs.Different MPS cardiac software programs give variable (but correlated) LVEF and left ventricular volumetric measures. Those obtained from different cardiac softwares cannot be used interchangeably. Our findings have shown that ECTb, QGS, and Myometrix programs are reproducible, with respect to LVEF, EDV, and ESV.