Identification of impaired metabolic reserve by atrial pacing in patients with significant coronary artery stenosis. We investigated myocardial 11C-palmitate clearance kinetics at a resting heart rate (control) and during pacing using positron-emission tomography in 10 patients with significant coronary artery stenosis (greater than 70%) and evidence of exercise-induced ischemia. Serial 11C-palmitate images acquired at control and during pacing revealed biexponential myocardial 11C clearance both in myocardium supplied by a stenotic coronary artery (myocardium "at risk") and in myocardium supplied by a normal coronary artery (normal myocardium). At control, the average rate of myocardial 11C clearance from the early rapid curve component (the clearance half-time) was similar in normal myocardium and in that at risk (22.2 +/- 5.2 vs 21.0 +/- 5.4 min, NS), as was the amount of myocardial 11C activity at the end of the early rapid phase (residual fraction 56.3 +/- 7.2% vs 54.7 +/- 7.3%, NS). Thus, myocardial clearance was homogeneous at control, suggesting a similar rate and amount of 11C-palmitate oxidation in normal myocardium and in that at risk. Pacing shortened clearance half-times and decreased residual fraction in both normal myocardium and that at risk compared with control. However, clearance half-times were 17% longer and residual fractions 14% higher in myocardium at risk compared with normal myocardium (p less than .005 and p less than .01, respectively). Therefore, during pacing myocardial 11C clearance became heterogeneous, suggesting impaired 11C-palmitate oxidation in myocardium at risk compared with normal myocardium. Increased substrate utilization in response to increased workload can be thought of as a measure of metabolic reserve. Our data suggest metabolic reserve for free fatty acid oxidation is impaired in myocardium supplied by a significantly stenosed coronary artery and that this impairment can be detected by analysis of myocardial 11C-palmitate clearance.