Synthesis and biodistribution of an 18F-labelled resveratrol derivative for small animal positron emission tomography. Resveratrol (3,4',5-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene) is a naturally occurring phytoalexin and polyphenol existing in grapes and various other plants, and one of the best known 'nutriceuticals'. It shows a multiplicity of beneficial biological effects, particularly, by attenuating atherogenic, inflammatory, and carcinogenic processes. However, despite convincing evidence from experimental and clinical studies, data concerning the role of resveratrol and other members of the large polyphenols family for human health is still a matter of debate. One reason for this is the lack of suitable sensitive and specific methods, which would allow direct assessment of biodistribution, biokinetics, and the metabolic fate of these compounds in vivo. The unique features of positron emission tomography (PET) as a non-invasive in vivo imaging methodology in combination with suitable PET radiotracers have great promise to assess quantitative information on physiological effects of polyphenols in vivo. Herein we describe the radiosynthesis of an (18)F-labelled resveratrol derivative, 3,5-dihydroxy-4'-[(18)F]fluoro-trans-stilbene ([(18)F]-1), using the Horner-Wadsworth-Emmons reaction as a novel radiolabelling technique in PET radiochemistry for subsequent functional imaging of polyphenol metabolism in vivo. In a typical "three-step/one-pot" reaction, (18)F-labelled resveratrol derivative [(18)F]-1 could be synthesized within 120-130 min including HPLC separation at a specific radioactivity of about 90 GBq/mumol. The radiochemical yield was about 9% (decay-corrected) related to [(18)F]fluoride and the radiochemical purity exceeded 97%. First radiopharmacological evaluation included measurement of biodistribution ex vivo and positron emission tomography (PET) studies in vivo after intravenous application of [(18)F]-1 in male Wistar rats using a dedicated small animal PET camera with very high spatial resolution. Concordantly with data on bioavailability and metabolism of native resveratrol from the literature, these investigations revealed an extensive uptake and metabolism in the liver and kidney, respectively, of [(18)F]-1. This study represents the first investigation of polyphenols in vivo by means of PET.