The scintigraphic evaluation of Huntington's disease and other movement disorders using single photon emission computed tomography perfusion brain scans. The increasing availability of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) perfusion brain scans has led to the investigation of a variety of neuropsychiatric conditions including the movement disorders such as Huntington's and Parkinson's disease. In general, observers have noted that Huntington patients have bilaterally decreased uptake of technetium 99m HM-PAO and iodine 123 IMP in the basal ganglia regions involving the heads of the caudate nucleic and adjacent structure, which reflects decreased neuronal function. These functional changes precede the morphological changes due to caudate nucleus atrophy that are observed on computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. Cortical changes occur in severely diseased Huntington's patients but are more nonspecific. Prediction of individuals at risk for Huntington's disease using SPECT scans should be done with caution and in association with other clinical data. In contrast, in Parkinson's disease mild diffusely decreased perfusion is commonly noted throughout the cerebral structures, except for the cerebellum. In Parkinson's disease, there is less agreement among observers as to whether the basal ganglia are abnormal. Some observers report that there are no specific basal ganglia perfusion defects in excess of those changes seen elsewhere in the brain. Others report diminished basal ganglia uptake associated with L-dopa therapy in some Parkinson's patients, and in patients with hemi-parkinsonism there have been perfusion deficits reported in the contralateral basal ganglia. In some Parkinson patients, bilateral Alzheimer's-like posterior temporoparietal cortical perfusion defects have been observed in association with progressive dementia. Basal ganglia and cortical perfusion changes also have been reported in a few patients with a variety of other less common movement disorders.