IRDye800-2-Deoxy-D-glucose Optical fluorescence imaging is increasingly being used to monitor biological functions of specific targets in small animals (1-3). However, the intrinsic fluorescence of biomolecules poses a problem when fluorophores that absorb visible light (350–700 nm) are used. Near-infrared (NIR) fluorescence (700–1,000 nm) detection avoids the natural background fluorescence interference of biomolecules, providing a high contrast between target and background tissues in small animals. NIR fluorophores have a wider dynamic range and minimal background fluorescence as a result of reduced scattering compared with visible fluorescence detection. NIR fluorophores also have high sensitivity, attributable to low background fluorescence, and high extinction coefficients, which provide high quantum yields. The NIR region is also compatible with solid-state optical components, such as diode lasers and silicon detectors. NIR fluorescence imaging is a non-invasive complement to radionuclide imaging in small animals. The phosphorylation of glucose, an initial and important step in cellular metabolism, is catalyzed by hexokinases (HKs) (4). There are four HKs in mammalian tissues (HKI–HKIV). HKI, HKII, and HKIII have molecular weights of ~100,000 each HKI is found mainly in the brain, and HKII is insulin-sensitive and is found in adipose and muscle cells. HKIV, also known as glucokinase, has a molecular weight of 50,000 and is specific to the liver and pancreas. Most brain HK is bound to mitochondria, enabling coordination between glucose consumption and oxidation. Tumor cells are known to be highly glycolytic because of increased expression of glycolytic enzymes and HK activity (5), which was detected in tumors from patients with lung, gastrointestinal, and breast cancers. The HKs, by converting glucose to glucose-6-phosphate, help maintain the downhill gradient that results in the transport of glucose into cells through the facilitative glucose transporters (GLUT1–13) (6). GLUT4 and HKII are the major transporters and HK isoforms in skeletal muscle, heart, and adipose tissue, wherein insulin promotes glucose utilization. HKIV is associated with GLUT2 in liver and pancreatic β cells. 2-Deoxy-d-glucose (2-DG) was first developed to inhibit glucose utilization by cancer cells (7). HKs phosphorylate 2-DG to 2-DG-6-phosphate, which inhibits phosphorylation of glucose. 2-[