Can sequential 18F-FDG PET/CT replace WBC imaging in the diabetic foot? White blood cell (WBC) scintigraphy is considered the nuclear medicine imaging gold standard for diagnosing osteomyelitis in the diabetic foot. Recent papers have suggested that the use of (18)F-FDG PET/CT produces similar diagnostic accuracy, but clear interpretation criteria have not yet been established. Our aim was to evaluate the role of sequential (18)F-FDG PET/CT in patients with a high suspicion of osteomyelitis to define objective interpretation criteria to be compared with WBC scintigraphy.Thirteen patients whom clinicians considered positive for osteomyelitis (7 with ulcers, 6 with exposed bone) were enrolled. The patients underwent (99m)Tc-exametazime WBC scintigraphy with acquisition times of 30 min, 3 h, and 20 h and sequential (18)F-FDG PET/CT with acquisition times of 10 min, 1 h, and 2 h. A biopsy or tissue culture was performed for final diagnosis. Several interpretation criteria (qualitative and quantitative) were tested.At final biopsy, 7 patients had osteomyelitis, 2 had soft-tissue infection without osteomyelitis, and 4 had no infection. The best interpretation criterion for osteomyelitis with WBC scintigraphy was a target-to-background (T/B) ratio greater than 2.0 at 20 h and increasing with time. A T/B ratio greater than 2.0 at 20 h but stable or decreasing with time was suggestive of soft-tissue infection. A T/B ratio of no more than 2.0 at 20 h excluded an infection. Thus, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and accuracy for osteomyelitis were 86%, 100%, 100%, 86%, and 92%, respectively. For (18)F-FDG PET/CT, the best interpretation criterion for osteomyelitis was a maximal standardized uptake value (SUVmax) greater than 2.0 at 1 and 2 h and increasing with time. A SUVmax greater than 2.0 after 1 and 2 h but stable or decreasing with time was suggestive of a soft-tissue infection. An SUVmax less than 2.0 excluded an infection. (18)F-FDG PET at 10 min was not useful. Using these criteria, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and accuracy for osteomyelitis were 43%, 67%, 60%, 50%, and 54%, respectively. Combining visual assessment of PET at 1 h and CT was best for differentiating between osteomyelitis and soft-tissue infection, with a diagnostic accuracy of 62%.(18)F-FDG PET/CT, even with sequential imaging, has a low diagnostic accuracy for osteomyelitis and cannot replace WBC scintigraphy in patients with diabetic foot.