Attenuation correction by simultaneous emission-transmission myocardial single-photon emission tomography using a technetium-99m-labelled radiotracer: impact on diagnostic accuracy. Irregular photon attenuation may limit the diagnostic accuracy of myocardial single-photon emission tomography (SPET). The aim of this study was to quantify the potential benefit of attenuation correction by simultaneous emission and transmission imaging for the detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) of vessels supplying the inferoposterior wall segments. In 25 male patients with >/=50% stenoses of the right coronary artery and/or circumflex artery but without significant narrowing of the left anterior descending artery, stress studies using technetium-99m tetrofosmin (400 MBq) were carried out with and without attenuation correction. A dual-head camera with L-shaped detector positioning was equipped with two scanning gadolinium-153 line sources. Tomograms were reconstructed and quantified using circumferential count rate profiles of myocardial activity (two in each patient). The profiles were compared with the respective normal ranges obtained from a database of 25 male patients with a <10% likelihood of CAD. In patients without CAD, the maximal differences in count density of different wall segments were reduced from 29.0% in non-corrected (NC) studies to 9.5% in attenuation-corrected (AC) studies. In particular, the inferoposterior and septal wall segments were represented by significantly increased relative count densities after attenuation correction. The effects of attenuation correction proved independent of body mass. In patients with CAD, segmental count densities were abnormal in 84% of the NC studies and 100% of the AC studies. In single-vessel disease the stenotic vessel was identified in 66% of cases by NC studies and in 100% by AC studies. In AC studies, the extent and depth of defects exceeded those in NC studies. For the detection of CAD of the right coronary artery, the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves relating to the AC studies demonstrated improved discrimination capacity (P<0.05). ROC analysis of CAD detection yielded normalcy rates of 82% (NC) and 94% (AC) for the circumflex artery and 65% (NC) and 97% (AC) for the right coronary artery area at a sensitivity level of 95%. It is concluded that attenuation correction using the above system may enhance the diagnostic accuracy of myocardial SPET when inferoposterior wall segments are to be evaluated.