Cerebral perfusion reserve and collateral circulation in patients with internal carotid stenosis. The cerebral hemodynamics in patients with carotid disease is influenced by a network of extra- and intracranial collaterals. The purpose of this study was to compare the findings of regional cerebral perfusion reserve (rCPR) with angiographically proven collateral circulation. In 41 patients (28 men, 13 women, age 63 +/- 10 years) with angiographically proven carotid stenoses or occlusions (30 stenoses, 11 occlusions) 24 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT and 25 dynamic Xe-CT investigations were conducted, both before and after acetazolamide stimulation. rCPR was quantified as the ratio (1) of the absolute rCBF values obtained by Xe-CT and (2) of the count density measured by HMPAO-SPECT of the acetazolamide administration. A rCPR of less than 95% in a vascular territory was classified as compromised rCPR. A recent CT examination was available in all cases. According to the angiographic findings the patients could be classified into (1) group A (n = 9) with residual carotid perfusion, (2) Group B (n = 8) with collateralization via the circle of Willis, and (3) group C (n = 24) with leptomeningeal or ophthalmic artery collateral circulation. The rCPR values were significantly different in groups B and C with both methods, Xe-CT (P = 0.0035) and HMPAO-SPECT (P = 0.0014). rCPR was decreased in 13/14 group C patients investigated with Xe-CT and in 11/14 examined with HMPAO-SPECT. All patients in group B showed normal rCPR according to Xe-CT and HMPAO-SPECT. In group A, six of seven revealed decreased rCPR on Xe-CT, while rCPR values were normal in all four group A-patients examined with HMPAO-SPECT. The cerebral hemodynamics depend on a collateralization network and not only on the degree of internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis. A decreased CPR in a vascular territory ipsilateral to an ICA stenosis or occlusion correlates strongly with the angiographic finding of leptomeningeal or ophthalmic artery collateral circulation.