<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2003-03-12</DATELINE><TITLE>Mammary expression of new genes to combat mastitis</TITLE><BODY>Continual advances in the ability to produce transgenic animals make it likely that such animals will become important components of animal agriculture. The full benefit of the technology, and justification of its initial cost outlay, will be dependent on the establishment within these animals of new traits not easily achievable by other means. Potential applications include enhanced nutrient digestibility with reduced fecal losses, significantly altered milk composition with superior nutritional properties, and enhanced disease resistance. Our goal is to enhance mastitis resistance of dairy cows by enabling the cells of the mammary gland to secrete additional antibacterial proteins. Proof of concept has been obtained through experimentation with a transgenic mouse model. Three lines of mice were developed that produce varying levels of lysostaphin in their milk. This protein has potent anti-staphylococcal activity and its secretion into milk confers substantial resistance to infection caused by intramammary challenge with Staphylococcus aureus, a major mastitis pathogen. Additional antibacterial proteins are being sought that will complement lysostaphin. A potential benefit of transgenic application of antibacterial proteins is the concomitant sparing in the agricultural use of antibiotics currently used as human therapeutics. Antibacterial proteins, such as lysostaphin, are not typically used as injectable or oral therapeutics because of immune-mediated or digestive destruction of their activity. In contrast, the immune system of transgenic animals will not consider the transgenic protein as being foreign. In addition we are exploring the potential of involution or mastitis responsive promoter elements for use in subsequent transgenic experiments designed to restrict lysostaphin production to these important time points. It is anticipated that genomics will play a role in unveiling candidate genes whose promoter elements will enable desired temporal expression patterns. The transgenic approach to insertion of new genetic material into agriculturally important animals is feasible but requires extensive prior evaluation of the transgene and transgene product in model systems.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>