<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2013-01-28</DATELINE><TITLE>Addressing the Gaps in Preparation for Quarantine</TITLE><BODY>INTRODUCTION: In the event of an outbreak of a communicable respiratory illness, quarantine may become necessary. The New York Institute for All Hazard Preparedness (NYIAHP) of the State University of New York (SUNY) Downstate Medical Center, in cooperation with the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene's Healthcare Emergency Preparedness Program, (NYC DOHMH-HEPP) quarantine working group, has developed a series of clinical protocols to help health care facilities respond to such an event. PROBLEM: Two full-scale exercises (FSEs) were designed and conducted a year apart in the quarantine unit at Kings County Hospital Center (KCHC) to test the efficacy and feasibility of these quarantine protocols. The goal of these exercises was to identify the gaps in preparedness for quarantine and increase hospital readiness for such an event. METHODS: Evaluators monitored for efficient management of critical physical plants, personnel and material resources. Players were expected to integrate and practice emergency response plans and protocols specific to quarantine. In developing the exercise objectives, five activities were selected for evaluation: Activation of the Unit, Staffing, Charting/Admission, Symptom Monitoring and Infection Control, and Client Management. RESULTS: The results of the initial FSE found that there were incomplete critical tasks within all five protocols: These deficiencies were detailed in an After Action Report and an Improvement Plan was presented to the KCHC Disaster Preparedness Committee a month after the initial FSE. In the second FSE a year later, all critical tasks for Activation of the unit, Staffing and Charting/Admission were achieved. Completion of critical tasks related to Symptom Monitoring and Infection Control and Client Management was improved in the second FSE, but some tasks were still not performed appropriately. CONCLUSION: In short, these exercises identified critical needs in disaster preparedness of the KCHC Quarantine Unit. The lessons learned from this logistical exercise enabled the planning group to have a better understanding of leadership needs, communication capabilities, and infection control procedures. Kings County Hospital Center performed well during these exercises. It was clear that performance in the second exercise was improved, and many problems noted in the first exercise were corrected. Staff also felt better prepared the second time. This supports the idea that frequent exercises are vital to maintain disaster readiness. R Nathawad, PM Roblin, D Pruitt, B Arquilla. Addressing the gaps in preparation for quarantine. Prehosp Disaster Med. 2013;28(2):1-7 23158909.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>