Onchocerciasis hyperendemic in the Unturán Mountains: the value of recombinant antigens in describing a new transmission area in southern Venezuela. A recently described hyperendemic onchocerciasis area, located in the Unturán Mountains (between the Siapa and Orinoco basins) of southern Venezuela was studied using a cocktail of 3 low molecular weight onchocercal recombinant antigens (OvMBP/10, OvMBP/11, and OvMBP/29). The resulting seroepidemiological data were compared with those from a hypoendemic community (Altamira) situated in the northern coastal mountain range. Parasitological (skin biopsy) and serological (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, ELISA) methods for the specific diagnosis of Onchocerca volvulus in these 2 very different endemic areas were, respectively, 88% and 96% sensitive in Unturán, and 57% and 91% sensitive in Altamira. The mean microfilarial load, the mean optical density (OD), and the seropositivity rates all increased significantly with age in both communities. The serological variables (mean OD and prevalence of anti-O. volvulus antibodies) were both significantly higher in Unturán than in Altamira for children and young adults (aged < 25 years), although above this age no differences between communities were detected. Seroprevalence had already reached 50% in the under 15 year-olds examined at Unturán but was just 5% at Altamira for the same age-class. The prevalence of specific antibodies (mainly a marker of exposure to risk of infection) exceeded 85% in the remaining age-categories at the hyperendemic area. This is in agreement with the high community microfilarial load recorded in Unturán (> 20 mf/mg) and the presence of sclerosing keratitis and hanging groin, suggesting that onchocerciasis is a public health problem in this community. The ELISA test used here, based on a cocktail of 3 low molecular weight onchocercal recombinant antigens, appears, therefore, to constitute a practical tool for the description of endemicity levels in remote areas, particularly given the fact that finger-prick blood samples are routinely taken from children in the Upper Orinoco region for surveys of malaria incidence. Such studies could aid in defining the true extent of the Amazon focus (still unknown) and providing priority indicators for the selection of communities where onchocerciasis control programmes should be implemented.