Phagocytosis of haemozoin (malarial pigment) enhances metalloproteinase-9 activity in human adherent monocytes: role of IL-1beta and 15-HETE. It has been shown previously that human monocytes fed with haemozoin (HZ) or trophozoite-parasitized RBCs displayed increased matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) enzyme activity and protein/mRNA expression and increased TNF production, and showed higher matrix invasion ability. The present study utilized the same experimental model to analyse the effect of phagocytosis of: HZ, delipidized HZ, beta-haematin (lipid-free synthetic HZ) and trophozoites on production of IL-1beta and MMP-9 activity and expression. The second aim was to find out which component of HZ was responsible for the effects.Native HZ freshly isolated from Plasmodium falciparum (Palo Alto strain, Mycoplasma-free), delipidized HZ, beta-haematin (lipid-free synthetic HZ), trophozoites and control meals such as opsonized non-parasitized RBCs and inert latex particles, were fed to human monocytes. The production of IL-1beta by differently fed monocytes, in presence or absence of specific MMP-9 inhibitor or anti-hIL-1beta antibodies, was quantified in supernatants by ELISA. Expression of IL-1beta was analysed by quantitative real-time RT-PCR. MMP-9 activity and protein expression were quantified by gelatin zymography and Western blotting.Monocytes fed with HZ or trophozoite-parasitized RBCs generated increased amounts of IL-1beta and enhanced enzyme activity (in cell supernatants) and protein/mRNA expression (in cell lysates) of monocyte MMP-9. The latter appears to be causally related to enhanced IL-1beta production, as enhancement of both expression and enzyme activity were abrogated by anti-hIL-1beta Abs. Upregulation of IL-1beta and MMP-9 were absent in monocytes fed with beta-haematin or delipidized HZ, indicating a role for HZ-attached or HZ-generated lipid components. 15-HETE (15(S,R)-hydroxy-6,8,11,13-eicosatetraenoic acid) a potent lipoperoxidation derivative generated by HZ from arachidonic acid via haem-catalysis was identified as one mediator possibly responsible for increase of both IL-1beta production and MMP-9 activity.Results indicate that specific lipoperoxide derivatives generated by HZ may play a role in modulating production of IL-1beta and MMP-9 expression and activity in HZ/trophozoite-fed human monocytes. Results may clarify aspects of cerebral malaria pathogenesis, since MMP-9, a metalloproteinase able to disrupt the basal lamina is possibly involved in generation of hallmarks of cerebral malaria, such as blood-brain barrier endothelium dysfunction, localized haemorrhages and extravasation of phagocytic cells and parasitized RBCs into brain tissues.