Drug supply in Nigeria. The health situation in Nigeria is typical of tropical Africa. It is characterised by high childhood and maternal mortality and a relatively short life expectancy. Mortality in childhood in due mainly to diseases like malaria, measles, poliomyelitis, tetanus, diarrhoea and acute respiratory tract infections. Diseases like filariasis, schistosomiasis and leprosy which are now readily controlled by drugs cause considerable morbidity in later life. Although the technology and tools (particularly vaccines and drugs) for the control of most of these diseases are now available, it has not been possible to make optimal use of them in Nigeria and other tropical African countries because of unfavourable social and economic conditions. The non-availability of drugs most needed for healthcare and disease control has been found to be due not only to insufficient funds but also to the use of the limited funds on expensive drugs that have little bearing on the disease pattern. The Essential Drug Programme initiated by the World Health Organisation, now adopted by Nigeria and about 100 other countries mostly in the Third World, aims to correct this unsatisfactory drug supply situation by ensuring that the available funds are used to provide those drugs needed by the large majority of the people and are made available at all times at prices that most people can afford. The Bamako Initiative in the African Region of the World Health Organization is also designed to ensure regular availability of drugs particularly to primary healthcare facilities. Seed drugs are provided to the health institutions either by the National Government or through external aid. These are sold to patients at a small profit margin. The proceeds are then used to replenish stocks and the small profit used to improve services in the health centre. The introduction of these programmes in Nigeria has improved drug availability considerably in the past couple of years and should soon start yielding further dividend in the form of measurable improvement in the health situation.