Indirect immunoglobulin G (IgG) and IgM enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) and IgM capture ELISA for detection of antibodies to lipopolysaccharide in adult typhoid fever patients in Pakistan. Sera from 339 adult febrile patients in Pakistan were tested for antibodies to Salmonella typhi lipopolysaccharide by indirect immunoglobulin G (IgG) and IgM enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and IgM capture ELISA. A total of 55 patients had S. typhi cultured from their blood, 20 had S. typhi cultured from their stool, 24 were blood or stool culture positive for S. paratyphi A, 41 were culture negative but clinically diagnosed as having enteric fever, 41 had gastrointestinal or urinary tract infections, 41 were clinically diagnosed as having malaria, 20 were smear-positive patients with malaria, 58 had respiratory infections, and the remaining 39 individuals were placed in a miscellaneous group who did not have Salmonella infection. The sensitivities of the indirect IgG ELISA, indirect IgM ELISA, and IgM capture ELISA determined with specimens obtained from the blood culture-positive patients with typhoid fever (positive controls) were 80, 64, and 62%, respectively. The specificities of the assays determined with sera from the patients with respiratory infections (negative controls) were 95, 95, and 97%, respectively. The percentage of smear-positive patients with malaria who were positive by these assays was lower than that in the negative control group. The percentages of individuals in the other patient categories who were positive by these tests were between those obtained with the positive and negative controls. Of the positive controls, 26 were positive by both IgM assays, 9 were IgM positive only by indirect ELISA, and 8 were IgM positive only by IgM capture ELISA. A total of 70% of the positive control patients who were tested for O agglutinins by the Widal tube agglutination assay were positive however, 29% of the negative control patients were also positive. The indirect IgG ELISA was the single most effective test for the serodiagnosis of typhoid fever in this population.