Twin children in The Gambia: evidence for genetic regulation of physical characteristics in the presence of sub-optimal nutrition. It has been demonstrated that physical growth characteristics are subject to genetic regulation. However, in developing countries, environmental factors such as food availability and frequent infections are associated with growth faltering which is particularly marked in infancy. We have conducted anthropometric measurements of a cohort of twin children aged less than 14 years living in a rural area of The Gambia to ascertain the extent to which genetic factors influence physical growth in the presence of a sub-optimal diet. Almost 25% of the children were more than 2SD below the median of the reference population in terms of their height-for-age Z score, indicating a marked level of undernutrition. Nevertheless, the within-pair variances were significantly less for monozygous than for dizygous twin pairs for the following variables: height, head circumference and body mass index (p < 0.01) weight (p < 0.02) and mid upper arm circumference (p < 0.1), indicating that there is a strong genetic influence on growth regulation despite the sub-optimal nutrition.At the Medical Research Council (MRC) field station serving villages in the Upper River Division (URD) of The Gambia in April 1991, health workers took anthropometric measurements and a blood sample from 39 pairs of monozygous (MZ) twins and 115 pairs of same-sexed dizygous (DZ) twins who had been living together and lived together at the time of the survey. All the twins were less than 14 years old. Researchers wanted to determine whether genetic factors influence physical growth in the presence of a suboptimal diet and infectious diseases, especially diarrhea and malaria. The study was conducted at the end of the dry season when food availability was limited. The frequency distribution curves of height-for-age (HAZ) and weight-for-height (WHZ) for the study population were left of the distribution curve for the US National Center for Health Statistics' reference population. This leftward shift suggests that the twins were undernourished at the time of the survey and for a prolonged time, resulting in growth stunting. 17.8% of the children had a WHZ score that was less than or equal to two standard deviations below the median of the reference population. 24.6% had an HAZ score less the median of the reference population. Stunting was most common in children younger than 2 years old. No significant difference between the 2 total variances of the 2 twin types existed. On the other hand, except for skinfold thickness, the within-pair variances were significantly less for MZ than for DZ twin pairs (height, head circumference, and body mass index [p  0.01) weight [p  0.02], and mid-upper arm circumference [p  0.1]). The environmental constraints (i.e., suboptimal diet and presence of infections) may have concealed the genetic influences of skinfold thickness. These findings suggest that genetic factors influence height, head circumference, body mass index, weight, and mid-upper arm circumference.