Treatment of malaria fever episodes among children in Malawi: results of a KAP survey. Caretakers of children (< 10 years of age) were questioned about management of pediatric malarial fever episodes in a nation-wide knowledge, attitudes, and practices survey conducted in Malawi. A total of 1,531 households in 30 randomly selected clusters of 51 households each were sampled and interviewed. Overall 557 caretakers reported a fever in their child in the previous 2 weeks 43%-judged the illness as severe. Fifty-two percent of caretakers brought their febrile children to clinic. Clinic attendance was positively correlated with young age of the child (< 4 years), severe illness, and higher socioeconomic status. Seventy-four percent of clinic attenders gave their child an antimalarialCaretakers of children (10 years of age) were questioned about management of pediatric malarial fever episodes in a nation-wide knowledge, attitudes, and practices survey conducted in Malawi. A total of 1531 households in 30 randomly selected clusters of 51 households each were sampled and interviewed. Overall 557 caretakers reported a fever in their child in the previous 2 weeks and 43% judged the illness severe. 289 (52%) of caretakers brought their febrile children to clinic. Clinic attendance was linked with the age of the child, with younger children (4 years of age) being significantly more likely to be taken to clinic than older children (OR 2.7). Children judged as severely ill by their caretakers were taken to clinic significantly more often than those not thought to be severely ill (OR 1.7). Caretakers from households where the household head had a primary or secondary education were more likely to attend clinic than those were the household head reported no education (OR 1.5). Similarly, caretakers from households with moderate or high income attended clinic more frequently than did those with low income (56% vs. 49%, p = 0.15). 74% of clinic attenders reported they gave an antimalarial to the child with fever illness, compared to 42% of those who did not go to clinic (OR 4.0). Among caretakers who did not attend clinic, those from households were the head had a secondary education were more likely to give antimalarials (71%) than were those where the household head had a primary or no education (38%) (OR 4.0). Among those not attending clinic, most obtained medications at home (20%)