Chemical Determinants of antimalarial activity of reversed siderophores. Reversed siderophores (RSFs) are artificial hydroxamate-based iron chelators designed after the natural siderophore ferrichrome. The modular molecular design of RSF derivatives allowed the synthesis of various congeners with controlled iron-binding capacities and partition coefficients. These two physicochemical properties were assessed by a novel fluorescent method and were found to be the major determinants of RSF permeation across erythrocyte membranes and scavenging of compartmentalized iron. The partition coefficient apparently conferred upon RSFs two major features: (i) the ability to rapidly access iron pools of in vitro-grown Plasmodium falciparum at all developmental stages and to mobilize intracellular iron and transfer it to the medium and (ii) the ability to suppress parasite growth at all developmental stages. These features of RSFs were assessed by quantitative determination of the structure-activity relationships of the biological activities and partition coefficients spanning a wide range of values. The most effective RSF containing the aromatic group of phenylalanine (RSFm2phe) showed 50% inhibitory concentration of 0.60 +/- 0.03 nmol/ml in a 48-h test and a 2-h onset of inhibition of ring development at 5 nmol/ml. The lipophilic compound RSFm2phe and the lipophilic and esterase-cleavable compound RSFm2pee inhibited parasite growth at all developmental stages whether inhibition was assessed in a continuous mode or after discontinuing drug administration. The antimalarial effects of RSFm2phe and cleavable RSFm2pee were potentiated in the presence of desferrioxamine (DFO) at concentrations at which DFO alone had no effect on parasite growth. These studies provide experimental evidence indicating that the effective and persistent antimalarial actions of RSFs are associated with drug access to infected cells and scavenging of iron from intracellular parasites. Moreover, the optimal antimalarial actions of RSFs are apparently also determined by improved accessibility to critical iron pools or by specific interactions with critical parasite targets.