Malaria: what treatment today?. Morbidity and mortality due to malaria remains an important health problem for travelers visiting endemic zones. In this population, typical episodes of chills and fever followed by diaphoresis are not always observed inaugural signs may limited to low-grade fever accompanying digestive disorders. Early diagnosis is nevertheless essential to prevent progression to acute pernicious malaria. Blood smears, quantitative butty coat (QBC) test or the Parasight test can give rapid diagnosis. Chloroquine is the drug of choice for Plasmodium vivax, P. ovale or P. Malariae infection, but chloroquine-resistant P. falciparum is widespread in tropical zones and resistant P. vivax has been reported in Indonesia. Currently, halofantrine is the best treatment for P. falciparum infection, although cardiac toxicity may occur in patients with a long QT on the electrocardiogram. Mefloquine can be alternative. The sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine combination is also used in many tropical zones because of its low cost and availability, but many resistant strains of P. falciparum have been identified. Use of quinine is also widespread in tropical zones. This basic antimalarial is rapidly effective but is also rapidly eliminated, necessitating repeated oral doses. Intramuscular injection may provoke necrosis. The main indication for quinine is acute pernicious P. falciparum malaria, but the drug is also used for simple episodes of fever in many tropical zones. Symptomatic care including fluid replacement, oxygen, transfusion, diuretics, respiratory assistance and dialysis may also be required in some cases. Use of corticosteroids or exsanguinotransfusion remains a question of debate. When administered rapidly, fever should regress within a few days. Neurological sequellae are exceptional after acute pernicious malaria in adults but may occur approximately 5% of children, emphasizing the importance of associating chemoprophylaxis and protection against insect bites. There has been much publicity concerning a vaccine, but results to date have been disappointing.