Laboratory investigations in the diagnosis of septicaemia and malaria. During a three month prospective study, 229 in-patients with fever, admitted to St. Mary's Hospital, Mumias, were examined for bacterial and malarial causes of fever. Blood cultures taken from patients appeared to contain true pathogens in 51 (22%) cases. Nine different bacterial species were identified from positive blood cultures of which four predominated: Salmonella typhi (46%), Streptococcus pneumoniae (19%), Salmonella enteritidis (12%), Salmonella typhimurium (8%). S. enteritidis and S. typhimurium isolates were mostly multi-antibiotic resistant, compared to S. typhi isolates which were relatively susceptible to the antibiotics used in the hospital. Only 70% of the S. pneumoniae isolates were susceptible to penicillin. Among 227 patients in whom a thick blood-film for malaria parasites and HIV serology were performed, only 25 (11%) revealed malaria parasites. HIV-1 antibodies were detected in 51 (22%) patients. Without appropriate laboratory examinations, the majority of the diagnoses would have been missed and no optimal treatment would have been administered. This may increase resistance to antimalarials and antibiotics.In developing countries, the presence of infectious diseases is diagnosed mainly on the basis of clinical symptoms and basic laboratory investigations.  Such diagnosis, however, can lead to incorrect or overtreatment, resulting in an increased resistance to antibiotics.  This study was conducted to characterize bacterial causes of community-acquired sepsis, in relation to malaria and HIV prevalence, and to assess whether isolated bacteria were susceptible to commonly used antibiotics.  During the 3-month prospective study, 229 inpatients with fever admitted to St. Mary's Hospital, Mumias, were examined for bacterial and malarial causes of fever.  Blood cultures taken from patients seemed to contain true pathogens in 51 (22%) cases.  9 different bacterial species were identified from positive blood cultures, of which the following predominated: Salmonella typhi (46%), Streptococcus pneumoniae (19%), Salmonella enteritidis (12%), and Salmonella typhimurium (8%).  The S. enteritidis and S. typhimurium isolates were mainly multi-antibiotic resistant, compared to the S. typhi isolates which were relatively susceptible to the antibiotics used in the hospital.  70% of the S. pneumoniae isolates were susceptible to penicillin.  Among the 227 patients upon whom a thick blood-film for malaria parasites and HIV serology were performed, 25 (11%) had malaria parasites.  HIV-1 antibodies were detected in 51 (22%) patients.  These study findings show how the culture of 1 blood sample and the performance of simple microbiological studies can facilitate the initiation of appropriate treatment with antibiotics.