The IgG-subclass distribution of naturally acquired antibodies to Plasmodium falciparum, in relation to malaria exposure and severity. A critical role has been proposed for the switch from non-cytophilic IgG2 to cytophilic antibodies of IgG1 and IgG3 subclasses observed in the humoral immune responses to Plasmodium falciparum of some Africans. These Africans have acquired clinically immunity naturally, after several years of exposure to holo-endemic malaria. In the present study, the possibility that life-long exposure to low levels of malarial endemicity may be associated with changes in the IgG-subclass composition of antibodies to P. falciparum was investigated in a native Amazonian community. The subjects were 138 malaria-exposed but non-infected Karitiana Indians. In a separate investigation, the concentrations of IgG-subclass antibodies in acutely ill patients with severe malaria (N = 22) were compared with those in age- and sex-matched controls who had uncomplicated malaria (N = 44). Plasma concentrations of IgG against a detergent-soluble extract of P. falciparum schizonts were measured by quantitative ELISA, using indirect standardization. Among the Karitiana, the concentrations of anti-parasite antibodies of all subclasses increased with age, and there was no correlation between age and the proportion of such antibodies which was cytophilic. The predominance of cytophilic IgG1 and non-cytophilic IgG2 antibodies in all age-groups of the Karitiana provides an example of an intermediate pattern of immune responses to P. falciparum which contrasts with those previously described in both clinically immune and non-immune populations. Although mean concentrations of cytophilic IgG1 against P. falciparum were significantly higher in the controls than in the patients with severe malaria, there were no significant differences in other IgG subclasses. Lack of exposure to malaria in the past was associated with disease severity (odds ratio = 4.75 95% confidence interval = 1.31-17.42), and may explain, at least partially, the occurrence of defective, low-IgG1 antibody responses to P. falciparum in those subjects who had severe malaria.