In vitro detection of (S)-naproxen and ibuprofen binding to plaques in the Alzheimer's brain using the positron emission tomography molecular imaging probe 2-(1-[6-[(2-[(18)F]fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl]ethylidene)malononitrile. Epidemiological studies have suggested that the chronic use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) reduces the relative risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The possible neuroprotection by NSAIDs in AD is generally attributed to anti-inflammatory activity. An additional mode of drug action may involve anti-aggregation of beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides by commonly used NSAIDs. We utilized in vitro competition assays, autoradiography, and fluorescence microscopy with AD brain specimens to demonstrate concentration-dependent decreases in the binding of the in vivo molecular imaging probe, 2-(1-[6-[(2-[(18)F]fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl]ethylidene)malononitrile ([(18)F]FDDNP), against (S)-naproxen and (R)- and (S)-ibuprofen (but not diclofenac) to Abeta fibrils and ex vivo Abeta senile plaques. Conversely, in vitro amyloid dyes Congo Red and Thioflavine T were demonstrated in the same experiments not to bind to the FDDNP binding site. FDDNP and the NSAIDs that share the same binding site also exhibit anti-aggregation effects on Abeta peptides, suggesting that the shared binding site on Abeta fibrils and plaques may be a site of anti-aggregation drug action. Our results indicate for the first time the binding of select NSAIDs to plaques, specifically to the binding site of the molecular imaging probe [(18)F]FDDNP. Our understanding of the molecular requirements of FDDNP binding may help in the optimization of the Abeta anti-aggregation potency of experimental drugs. [(18)F]FDDNP has been used to image plaques in vivo with positron emission tomography (PET), and investigations into the influence of Abeta anti-aggregation on the risk-reduction effects of NSAIDs on AD could utilize [(18)F]FDDNP and PET in determining the occupancy rate of NSAIDs and experimental drugs in plaques in the living brain of AD patients.