Reduced frontopolar activation during verbal fluency task in schizophrenia: a multi-channel near-infrared spectroscopy study. Functional neuroimaging studies to date have shown prefrontal dysfunction during executive tasks in schizophrenia. However, relationships between hemodynamic response in prefrontal sub-regions and clinical characteristics have been unclear. The objective of this study is to evaluate prefrontal hemodynamic response related to an executive task in schizophrenia and to assess the relationship between activation in the prefrontal sub-regions and clinical status. Fifty-five subjects with schizophrenia and age- and gender-matched 70 healthy subjects were recruited for this case-control study in a medical school affiliated hospital in the Tokyo metropolitan area, Japan. We measured hemoglobin concentration changes in the prefrontal (dorsolateral, ventrolateral, and frontopolar regions) and superior temporal cortical surface area during verbal fluency test using 52-channel near-infrared spectroscopy, which enables real-time monitoring of cerebral blood volumes in the cortical surface area under a more restraint-free environment than positron emission tomography or functional magnetic resonance imaging. The two groups showed distinct spatiotemporal pattern of oxy-hemoglobin concentration change during verbal fluency test. Schizophrenia patients were associated with slower and reduced increase in prefrontal activation than healthy controls. In particular, reduced activations of the frontopolar region, rather than lateral prefrontal or superior temporal regions, showed significant positive correlations with lower global assessment of functioning scores in the patient group, although task performance was not significantly associated with the scores. These results suggest that reduced frontopolar cortical activation is associated with functional impairment in patients with schizophrenia and that near-infrared spectroscopy may be an efficient clinical tool for monitoring these characteristics.