Combination of converging collimators for high-sensitivity brain SPECT. The objective of this study, which is related to human brain SPECT, was to increase the sensitivity of a triple-camera SPECT system and reduce statistical noise in reconstructed images using a combination of converging collimators. The reason for combining collimators is to ensure both high sensitivity and sufficient sampling without trading off spatial resolution.A high-sensitivity half-cone-beam (HCB) collimator, designed specifically for brain imaging, was combined with other collimators and compared with conventional parallel-beam and fanbeam circular orbit acquisitions. For comparison, previously studied HCB collimation with a circle-and-helix data acquisition trajectory was also included in this study. Simulations of the Hoffman 3-dimensional brain phantom were performed to calculate the efficiencies of collimators and their combinations and to quantitatively evaluate reconstruction bias, statistical noise, and signal-to-noise ratios in the reconstructed images. Experimental brain phantom data were also acquired and compared for different acquisition types. Finally, a patient brain scan was obtained with a combination of HCB and fanbeam collimators and compared with a triple-fanbeam circular orbit acquisition.A combination of 2 HCB collimators and 1 fanbeam collimator, compared with a triple-fanbeam collimator, can increase the photon detection efficiency by 27% and by more than a factor of 2, compared with triple-parallel-hole collimation, with equal spatial resolution measured on the axis of rotation. Quantitative analysis of reconstruction bias and visual analysis of the images showed no signs of sampling artifacts. Reconstructed images in the simulations, experimental brain phantom, and patient brain scans showed improved quality with this collimator combination due to increased sensitivity and reduced noise. Lesion visibility was also improved, as confirmed by signal-to-noise ratios. Alternatively, triple-HCB circle-and-helix acquisition has also shown competitive results, with a slight disadvantage in axial sampling and implementation procedure.Combined HCB and fanbeam collimation is a promising approach for high-sensitivity brain SPECT.