 Extracellular matrix (ECM) adhesion molecules consist of a complex network of fibronectins, collagens, chondroitins, laminins, glycoproteins, heparin sulfate, tenascins, and proteoglycans that surround connective tissue cells, and they are mainly secreted by fibroblasts, chondroblasts, and osteoblasts (1). Cell substrate adhesion molecules are considered essential regulators of cell migration, differentiation, and tissue integrity and remodeling. These molecules play a role in inflammation and atherogenesis, but they also participate in the process of invasion and metastasis of malignant cells in the host tissue (2). Invasive tumor cells adhere to the ECM, which provides a matrix environment for permeation of tumor cells through the basal lamina and underlying interstitial stroma of the connective tissue. Overexpression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and other proteases by tumor cells allows intravasation of tumor cells into the circulatory system after degrading the basement membrane and ECM (3). Galectin-3 (Gal-3) is a carbohydrate-binding protein (30 kDa) with a highly conserved carbohydrate recognition domain (CRD) at the C-terminus (4). Gal-3 is found not only on the cell surface but also in the cytoplasm and nucleus. It is also secreted into the extracellular space. Gal-3 is involved in multiple biological conditions such as cellular adhesion, apoptosis, differentiation, metastasis, and inflammation. Gal-3 is found to be overexpressed in various human cancer cells with even higher expression in metastatic cancer cells (5, 6). Interactions of Gal-3 with certain carbohydrates and ECM proteins promote tumor cell adhesion and metastasis through inhibition of tumor cell apoptosis and induction of endothelial cell proliferation and angiogenesis (7-11). The peptide ANTPCGPYTHDCPVKR (G3-C12) was identified to be a selective binder to Gal-3 with phage display screening, and G3-C12 inhibits adhesion of tumor cells to endothelial cells (12). Kumar et al. (13) introduced the linker GSG to the N-terminus alanine (A) of the G3-C12 peptide for conjugation with tetraazacyclododecane-