Value of dual-time-point (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose integrated positron emission and computed tomography in differentiation of malignant from benign gastrointestinal diseases. To explore the value of dual-time-point (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose integrated positron emission and computed tomography ((18)F-FDG PET-CT) in differentiation of malignant from benign gastrointestinal diseases.Sixty five patients with suspected gastrointestinal lesions underwent dual-time-point (18)F-FDG PET-CT imaging. Standardized uptake value (SUV) was calculated for semi-quantitative assessment. The SUV of the two acquisitions were signed SUV(early) and SUV(delayed), respectively. Then the change of SUVmax (ΔSUVmax) was calculated. The ROC curves of the SUV(early), SUV(delayed) and ΔSUV were drawn to find the best cut-off point value for differential diagnosis, and then the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and accuracy were calculated, respectively.Of the malignant lesions, the SUVmax in delayed imaging were significantly higher than those in early imaging, while there were no significant differences of SUVmax between the two images of the benign lesions. The ΔSUVmax of the malignant lesions were significantly higher than that of the benign ones. Taking the SUVmax higher than 9.2 in early imaging as positive diagnostic criteria, the sensitivity was 72.7%, the specificity was 85.7%, the positive predictive value was 91.4%, the negative predictive value was 60.0%, and the accuracy was 76.9%. Taking the SUVmax higher than 10.9 in delayed imaging as positive diagnostic criteria, the sensitivity was 75.0%, the specificity was 90.5%, the positive predictive value was 94.3%, the negative predictive value was 63.3%, and the accuracy was 80.0%. Taking the ΔSUVmax higher than 5.1% as positive diagnostic criteria, the sensitivity was 95.5%, the specificity was 85.7%, the positive predictive value was 93.3%, the negative predictive value was 90.0%, and the accuracy was 92.3%. The accuracy of dual-time-point (18)F-FDG PET-CT imaging was significantly higher than that of single-time point (18)F-FDG PET-CT imaging.Dual-time-point (18)F-FDG PET-CT imaging is a useful method for differentiating malignant from benign gastrointestinal diseases, and it is superior to the single-time point (18)F-FDG PET-CT imaging.