Effect of myocardial viability assessed by technetium-99m-sestamibi SPECT and fluorine-18-FDG PET on clinical outcome in coronary artery disease. PET imaging of myocardial perfusion and metabolism identifies regional viability as well as patients at high risk for future cardiac events. This study evaluated a combined "hybrid" imaging approach using 99mTc-sestamibi SPECT and [18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) PET with regard to reversibility of regional dysfunction and to patient clinical outcome during a 2-yr follow-up.In this study, 161 consecutive patients underwent baseline viability imaging. All had regional wall motion (RWM) abnormalities and 88% had a history of previous myocardial infarction. Regions were classified by semiquantitative analysis of sestamibi and FDG uptake as normal, mild match, mismatch or scar. For clinical outcome, patients were divided into three groups: predominantly scar tissue (Group A, n = 90), mild match (Group B, n = 26) and mismatch (Group C, n = 45). Treatment was performed with the knowledge of nuclear results. Cardiac events during follow-up were defined as death, myocardial infarction, unstable angina requiring revascularization, heart transplantation and survived resuscitation.Patients were followed for 29 +/- 6 mo. Revascularization rate was 30% in Group A, 81% in Group B and 80% in Group C, whereas the other patients were treated by medication. Only Group C demonstrated a significant reduction of cardiac events after revascularization, whereas, particularly in Group A, revascularization did not influence the frequency of events. Subjective assessment of angina pectoris and heart failure revealed more patients with improvement after revascularization as compared with conservative treatment. Of the 84 revascularized patients, 61 underwent follow-up angiography at 5 +/- 2 mo with RWM analysis using the centerline method. RWM improved only in mismatch regions from -2.2 +/- 1.0 s.d. to -1.0 +/- 1.4 s.d. (p < 0.01), whereas regions with a mild match or scar did not change.Nuclear imaging using 99mTc-sestamibi SPECT and [18F]FDG PET allows diagnosis of viability in regions with reduced perfusion and function with prognostic implications for functional outcome as well as for identification of patients who benefit most from revascularization.