Emission-based attenuation correction of myocardial perfusion studies. Nonuniform attenuation in the thorax can generate artifacts in single-photon emission computed tomographic myocardial perfusion studies that mimic coronary artery disease. In this article we present both phantom and simulation data, as well as clinical data, in support of an emission-based method that provides reliable correction for attenuation effects without the need for a transmission measurement.The attenuation map is derived from the measured distribution of 99mTc-labeled macroaggregated albumin in the lungs and a radioactive binder wrapped about the thorax. This information is acquired as part of a dual-isotope acquisition during the rest 201Tl study. Segmentation is used to define the interiors of lung and body compartments, which are assigned a single attenuation coefficient for each of the two tissue types. The appropriateness of this approach was investigated by examining the measured attenuation coefficients in a group of 80 individuals (40 male, 40 female) from positron emission tomographic transmission studies. The correction technique was evaluated with computer simulations, a physical phantom, and clinical data acquired from 20 patients. Analysis of the positron emission tomographic data found a small SD in the mean attenuation coefficients for the body (<5%) and lungs (<15%). The application of emission-based attenuation-correction technique produced a substantial reduction in the magnitude of the attenuation artifact in images obtained from both the phantom and the simulation studies. The emission-based attenuation-correction technique was easily applied to myocardial perfusion studies, where it had a significant effect, resulting in changes in interpretation for nine of 20 patients.The results of this study provide strong support for the concept that an attenuation map can be generated with fixed attenuation values in place of those that are directly measured. Thus the emission-based attenuation-correction technique can be considered an inexpensive alternative to transmission-based correction methods. Because the emission-based correction technique does not require any additional hardware, it has the major advantage of being applicable to all single-photon emission computed tomographic systems.