<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2020</DATELINE><TITLE>Clinical characteristics of COVID-19 in pregnancy: analysis of nine cases</TITLE><BODY>Objective To evaluate the clinical characteristics and pregnant outcomes of gravidae with COVID-19. Methods This study involved nine gravidae with COVID-19 admitted to the Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University from January 22 to February 1, 2020. Their clinical data, including epidemiological history, clinical symptoms, laboratory examinations, chest CT, treatment, delivery mode, and pregnancy outcomes, were analyzed retrospectively. Descriptive analysis was applied in this study. Results (1) Among the nine cases, five were admitted in the third trimester and four in the second trimester. The median incubation period of COVID-19 was 8 (1-14) d. Fever was presented in all cases on admission, and the other commonly seen symptoms were cough (seven cases) and diarrhea (five cases). Other signs and symptoms were also reported, including shortness of breath, myalgia and fatigue (four cases in each), nasal obstruction, pharyngalgia, chest pain, and headache/dizziness (three cases in each), rash (two cases), and chills and expectoration (one case in each). The most common laboratory abnormalities were a decreased number of lymphocytes (seven cases) and elevated C-reactive protein (six cases). Chest CT scans were performed in seven women, and all showed patchy areas or ground-glass opacity in both lungs. Oligohydramnios was detected in only one case at 37 +5 weeks, which was 7 d after the diagnosis of COVID-19. (2) All nine cases received empiric antibiotic and antiviral therapy with Chinese medicine as adjuvant treatment. Eight patients required oxygen inhalation, and seven were treated with glucocorticoid. One case received immunotherapy due to worsening conditions. (3) Four of the nine cases had delivered, including three cesarean sections and one spontaneous vaginal preterm birth after premature rupture of membranes, and the mother was transferred to the intensive care unit 2 d after delivery due to acute respiratory distress syndrome. One case was terminated at 26 gestational weeks. Of the four neonates, there were two term and two premature babies, and one preterm babies was small-for-gestational-age. No neonatal asphyxia was observed. Serial real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction showed negative results in the detection of 2019-novel coronavirus in all samples obtained from amniotic fluid, umbilical cord blood, neonatal nasopharynx, breast milk, and vagina. Maternal conditions were all stable in all cases, including the four continuing pregnancy, and the terminated ones, except the case mentioned above. Conclusions There is no distinguishable clinical feature between pregnant and non-pregnant COVID-19 patients. Currently, the evidence for vertical transmission of COVID-19 needs further studies with larger size of examples, but pregnancy may deteriorate COVID-19. Given that COVID-19 may have adverse effects on perinatal outcomes, it's recommended to take positive and effective measures for COVID-19 women in the third trimester.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>