<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-09-01</DATELINE><TITLE>Using routinely collected data to evaluate risk factors for mortality of veal calves</TITLE><BODY>Abstract From 2009 to 2012 a gradual increase in on-farm mortality of Dutch veal calves was observed. In 2012, the cattle industry decided that more information was needed on risk factors for mortality in both veal herds and herds of origin to enable implementation of risk mitigating measures. Routinely collected data were available from seven different data sources and contained information from 2.4 million white veal calves that were fattened in the period between 1 January 2011 and 30 June 2014. Survival analysis techniques (Kaplan-Meier), multilevel Poisson and multilevel Logistic regression models were applied to analyse the data. Two different models were assembled in which risk factors for veal calf mortality in respectively veal herds and herds of origin were identified. Univariable and multivariable regression techniques were used to detect risk factors significantly associated with mortality of veal calves during the fattening period. During the study period, the mean mortality was 4.9% per production cycle. The probability to die was highest during the first weeks after arrival in the veal herds and declined thereafter. Important risk factors included a veal herds with a higher use of antimicrobials, hair colour as proxy for breed, certain countries of origin, veal herd management with a limited amount of supplied feed and a not having an all-in / all-out system. A higher body weight at arrival in the veal herd was associated with lower mortality as well as veal calves that were fed an above median amount of milk, roughage and concentrates. From the calves that were fattened during the study period, observations of 1.1 million calves originated from the Netherlands and were available to study risk factors for veal calf mortality associated with the herd of origin. Important risk factors included purchase, herds with high mortality rates in the quarter in which the calf was born, fast growth in herd size, high cattle replacement rates and a higher antibiotic use in the quarter of birth. Calves that originated from herds that were certified BVD-free, Salmonella-unsuspected or Paratuberculosis-unsuspected, had a lower odds to die during the subsequent fattening period in a veal herd. Veal calf mortality was influenced by risk factors at the herd of origin as well as at veal herds. Adequate collaboration between the different industries is necessary to optimize veal calf management leading to a reduction in veal calf mortality during the fattening period.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>