<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>1999-06-25</DATELINE><TITLE>Equilibrium unfolding pathway of an H-type RNA pseudoknot which promotes programmed −1 ribosomal frameshifting</TITLE><BODY>The equilibrium unfolding pathway of a 41-nucleotide frameshifting RNA pseudoknot from the gag-pro junction of mouse intracisternal A-type particles (mIAP), an endogenous retrovirus, has been determined through analysis of dual optical wavelength, equilibrium thermal melting profiles and differential scanning calorimetry. The mIAP pseudoknot is an H-type pseudoknot proposed to have structural features in common with the gag-pro frameshifting pseudoknots from simian retrovirus-1 (SRV-1) and mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV). In particular, the mIAP pseudoknot is proposed to contain an unpaired adenosine base at the junction of the two helical stems (A15), as well as one in the middle of stem 2 (A35). A mutational analysis of stem 1 hairpins and compensatory base-pair substitutions incorporated into helical stem 2 was used to assign optical melting transitions to molecular unfolding events. The optical melting profile of the wild-type RNA is most simply described by four sequential two-state unfolding transitions. Stem 2 melts first in two closely coupled low-enthalpy transitions at low t(m) in which the stem 3′ to A35, unfolds first, followed by unfolding of the remainder of the helical stem. The third unfolding transition is associated with some type of stacking interactions in the stem 1 hairpin loop not present in the pseudoknot. The fourth transition is assigned to unfolding of stem 1. In all RNAs nvestigated, ΔH(vH) ≈ΔH(cal), suggesting that ΔC(p) for unfolding is small. A35 has the thermodynamic properties expected for an extrahelical, unpaired nucleotide. Deletion of A15 destabilizes the stem 2 unfolding transition in the context of both the wild-type and ΔA35 mutant RNAs only slightly, by ΔΔG°≈1 kcal mol(−1) (at 37 °C). The ΔA15 RNA is considerably more susceptible to thermal denaturation in the presence of moderate urea concentrations than is the wild-type RNA, further evidence of a detectable global destabilization of the molecule. Interestingly, substitution of the nine loop 2 nucleotides with uridine residues induces a more pronounced destabilization of the molecule (ΔΔG°≈2.0 kcal mol(−1)), a long-range, non-nearest neighbor effect. These findings provide the thermodynamic basis with which to further refine the relationship between efficient ribosomal frameshifting and pseudoknot structure and stability.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>