Lumbosacral spine imaging: physioanatomic method. Noninvasive evaluation of low back and leg pain has progressed rapidly over the past decade. The development of computed tomography, single-photon emission-computed tomographic bone scan, and magnetic resonance imaging has markedly increased diagnostic accuracy in detecting pathologic conditions. With this increased accuracy has come recognition of a 50% prevalence of underlying abnormalities in patients between 20 and 60 years old who have no symptoms. When such patients have a back injury, subsequent imaging will show in half of the population studied abnormalities that are not related to an acute injury. Degeneration of the spine progresses in all patients throughout their lifetime, and nearly all of the population will have back discomfort at some time. Political- and judicial-based compensation for back injuries related to accidents and on-the-job injuries provides an incentive for patients not to improve on therapy and to exaggerate symptoms, further complicating the clinical evaluation of their condition. The goal of physioanatomic noninvasive and invasive imaging evaluation presented in the following chapters is to increase specificity by differentiating pain generators from asymptomatic underlying pathologic conditions. When used with intensive conservative management and psychologic testing, this physioanatomic approach has resulted in much better treatment outcomes in our experience. The physioanatomic approach is quite simple, consisting of rigorous correlation of pathologic changes demonstrated by noninvasive imaging modalities (computed tomography, single-photon emission-computed tomographic bone scan, and magnetic resonance), or invasive modalities (diskography-enhanced computed tomography, nerve root block and facet block) with the patient's symptoms to evaluate whether the symptoms and the pathologic lesion are concordant or discordant. Patient symptoms and history are evaluated by use of a pain drawing and information sheet. The patient's pain pattern is categorized into a nonspecific pattern or into one of four recognizable pathway patterns (radicular, dorsal ramus, polyneuropathy, and sympathetic). Because each spinal lesion is typically manifested primarily via one of the four symptom pathways, the distribution of expected symptoms from each pathologic feature can be compared with the patient's pain drawing, and an assessment of the significance of imaged lesions can be made. The patient's presenting symptoms are also used to determine the most cost-effective and efficacious use of initial diagnostic imaging evaluation. In a minority of patients the findings on noninvasive imaging either will not correlate with the patient's symptoms or will demonstrate multiple abnormalities that could account for the patient's symptoms. In these patients, invasive techniques are extremely helpful in defining a pain generator or pain generators.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)