Detection nonuniformity measurements and corrections for cone beam transmission CT on a gamma camera. Cone beam transmission CT (CB-CT) improves SPECT imaging by providing high-quality attenuation maps for attenuation compensation and for correlated SPECT and CT imaging. The present work measures the detection nonuniformity for CB-CT implemented with a gamma camera, and applies nonuniformity corrections to make CB-CT more uniform and accurate. Two cone beam collimators were investigated, as well as the uncollimated cone beam geometry, using both uniformity images and CB-CT reconstructions of a uniform circular cylinder. Uniformity images were acquired as a function of point source position relative to the nominal focal point. The uniformity images for both collimators were highly nonuniform, with some regions differing by more than 15% from the average image counts per pixel, indicating that the holes do not focus to the same point. The most uniform images were obtained with the point source located at or near the nominal focal point. Radiographs estimated the misfocusing of the holes to be about 0.6 degrees in some regions. There were no indications that the hole size was nonuniform. The CB-CT reconstructions of data acquired with collimator showed no obvious signs of image artifact from the detection nonuniformities. However, low-noise simulated data with well-localized detection defects produced readily-apparent circular artifacts. The nonuniformity correction was accurate and easy to apply, and should be used whenever quantitative accuracy is required. The uniformity images acquired without collimator lacked the collimator-produced nonuniformities, but had decreased counts near the detector edge. The decrease was predictable, using simple geometric considerations. Uniform cylinder reconstructions of "without collimator" data showed a corresponding decrease in center density relative to the edge (edge-to-center ratio = 1.25), which was improved by the nonuniformity correction (ratio = 0.21). Accurate CB-CT without collimator will require further correction for photon scatter.