Single-photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography in endocrinology. The introduction of fusion of functional and anatomical imaging modalities into the field of endocrinology led to a major breakthrough in diagnosis, staging, and follow-up of patients with endocrine tumors. The management of endocrine tumors is based on a wide variety of conventional techniques, including computed tomography, ultrasound, or magnetic resonance imaging, and on scintigraphic functional techniques, associated with unique uptake and transport mechanisms and with the presence of high density of membrane receptors on some of these tumors. Anatomical modalities provide accurate detection and localization of morphological abnormalities, whereas nuclear medicine studies reflect the pathophysiological status of the disease process. Lack of structural delineation and relatively low contrast hamper the precise anatomical localization of the abnormal functional findings in the presence of potential concurrent foci related to the physiological biodistribution of the radiotracer or to processes unrelated to the evaluated disease entity. The notion that anatomical high-resolution and functional imaging data act as complementary methods led to various combination techniques of these modalities. However, coregistration of the functional and anatomical data after the acquisition of the 2 imaging modalities on separate machines, in different sessions, fails to provide accurate alignment of data, and the mathematical modeling is too cumbersome to be used on a routine basis. In contrast, hybrid imaging devices of single-photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography in a single gantry enable the sequential acquisition of the two modalities, with subsequent merging of data into a composite image display. These hybrid studies have led to a revolution in the field of imaging, providing clinically relevant information that is not apparent on separate images. The present review evaluates the contribution of the integrated single-photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography technology to image analysis and management of patients with endocrine tumors.