Contralateral hyperperfusion and ipsilateral hypoperfusion by ictal SPECT in patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Ictal Single Proton Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) has demonstrated high levels of sensitivity in localizing seizures among patients with epilepsy of the mesial temporal lobe (mTLE). However, incorrect information on the lateralization of mTLE has also been reported. In order to investigate the causes of these incorrect localizations, the authors assessed clinical symptoms, as well as the electroencephalography (EEG) and brain SPECT scan data of five patients with mTLE experiencing ictal hyperperfusion of the contralateral temporal lobe. All patients underwent presurgical evaluations, including an interictal and ictal brain SPECT scan. A subtraction ictal SPECT co-registered with Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) procedure or SISCOM was performed. Hyperperfusion (ictal perfusion greater than interictal perfusion) and hypoperfusion (ictal perfusion lower than interictal perfusion), results of SISCOM were analyzed and compared with seizure and ictal EEG pattern patterns. All the five patients had unilateral hippocampal sclerosis, and the radiotracer for the ictal SPECT was injected after the ictal EEG pattern had propagated to the contralateral side. The average delay between the ictal EEG onset and the radiotracer injection was 29.7+/-9.6s. All hyperperfusion SISCOM results revealed hyperperfusion in the contralateral temporal region with a more intense ictal EEG build-up. However, hypoperfusion SISCOM results demonstrated significant hypoperfusion in the epileptogenic temporal lobe of three of the five patients, but no hypoperfusion finding in the other two patients. This study demonstrates that early ictal EEG pattern propagation to the contralateral side in mTLE may be associated with contralateral ictal hyperperfusion with or without ipsilateral temporal hypoperfusion. The authors recommend simultaneous interpretations of ictal SPECT and ictal EEG propagation patterns at the time of the injection of radiotracers.