Is (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose-PET/CT useful for the presurgical characterization of thyroid nodules with indeterminate fine needle aspiration cytology? Thyroid nodules found incidentally on (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) have been shown to be malignant in 30%-50% of cases. The American Thyroid Association recommends performing fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) for thyroid nodules showing FDG uptake. On the other hand, the role of FDG-PET in characterizing thyroid nodules with indeterminate cytology before surgery is not clear. The goal of this study was to evaluate the role of FDG-PET/computed tomography (CT) in predicting malignancy of thyroid nodules with indeterminate FNAC and to correlate FDG uptake with pathological and ultrasonographic (US) features.Between November 2006 and October 2009, 55 patients (42 women, mean age: 50 years) planned for surgery for 56 thyroid nodules with indeterminate FNAC were prospectively included and considered for analysis. All patients underwent presurgical FDG-PET/CT (Siemens Biograph, mean FDG injected activity: 165 MBq) and neck US. Pathology of the corresponding surgical specimen was the gold standard for statistical analysis.At pathology 34 nodules were benign, 10 were malignant (7 papillary and 3 follicular carcinomas), and 12 were tumors of uncertain malignant potential (TUMP). The median size of the thyroid nodules was 21 mm (range: 10-57). Sensitivity, specificity, positive (PPV), and negative predictive (NPV) values of FDG-PET in detecting cancer/TUMP were 77%, 62%, 57%, and 81%, respectively. In multivariate analysis, cellular atypia was the only factor predictive of FDG uptake (p<0.001). Hurthle cells and poorly differentiated components were independent predictive factors of high (≥5) SUV Max (p=0.02 and p=0.02). Sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV of US in detecting cancer/TUMP were 82%, 47%, 50%, and 80%, respectively. In multivariate analysis, hypervascularization was correlated with malignancy/TUMP (p=0.007) and cystic features were correlated with benignity (p=0.03).Adding FDG-PET findings to neck US provided no diagnostic benefit. The sensitivity and specificity of FDG-PET in the presurgical evaluation of indeterminate thyroid nodules are too low to recommend FDG-PET routinely.