Update on epilepsy in pediatric patients. Epilepsy is a common condition that affects 0.5 to 1% of all children. Although most children with epilepsy have well-controlled seizures with use of one antiepileptic drug (AED), some children have medically refractory seizures. This situation can be the result of inaccurate classification of the paroxysmal event, use of an inappropriate AED, of a truly medically refractory seizure disorder. Paramount to the initial assessment of a child with presumed epilepsy is the appropriate classification of the paroxysmal event. Several nonepileptic conditions, such as motor tics or breath-holding spells, can cause paroxysmal abnormalities in children, which can be confused with epilepsy. The common pediatric epileptic and nonepileptic conditions are reviewed, and the standard and new AEDs and their side effects are discussed. When a child's seizure disorder is intractable despite adequate trials of AEDs, surgical treatment is increasingly becoming an effective option. Such procedures should ideally be performed at centers with extensive experience in this area and with a multidisciplinary team approach. With improved magnetic resonance imaging technology, increasing numbers of children with medically intractable localization-related epilepsy are being found to have underlying focal cortical dysplasia, tumors, or hippocampal atrophy. These abnormalities can often be surgically resected with excellent results. A generalized epilepsy may also be remediable with surgical treatment. Specifically, preliminary data suggest that infantile spasms, when triggered by an underlying focal cortical dysplasia, may be effectively treated by surgical resection. Patients with certain catastrophic seizure disorders, such as Sturge-Weber syndrome or hemimegalencephaly, require prompt intervention with hemispherectomy. The presurgical evaluation relies heavily on the magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, and single-photon emission computed tomography scan data as well as the electroencephalogram in identifying the area of epileptogenic abnormality.