The Ross procedure in the acute phase of infectious endocarditis in childhood. The Ross procedure of aortic valve replacement with a pulmonary autograft has several advantages in childhood over mechanical prostheses or homografts, especially in infectious endocarditis requiring early surgery. Between January 1997 and July 1998, 3 children with no known previous cardiac disease, aged 14 months, 10 and 11 years, had aortic valve infectious endocarditis. The causal organism was not identified in 1 case and the other two were due to staphylococcus aureus and corynebacterium diphteriae. All children had severe, rapidly progressive aortic regurgitation complicated by pulmonary oedema in the baby and systemic emboli in the two older children. Surgery was performed within 9 days, 1.5 month and 2 months after the onset of the disease. The postoperative course was uncomplicated in the 3 cases. Postoperative Doppler echocardiography showed absence of autograft dysfunction or stenosis, with the presence of pulmonary regurgitation in 1 case. Pulmonary autograft has the advantages of not requiring anticoagulation, of allowing growth of the aortic ring, of not being limited by the age of the patient and of having a low risk of degeneration and infectious endocarditis. Therefore, it seems particularly indicated for cases of complicated infectious endocarditis requiring early aortic valve replacement. The early (4.8%) and late (4.3%) mortality rates were comparable to those of other techniques and are lower than those associated with valve replacement with mechanical prostheses in cases of endocarditis (8.5% versus 40%). The secondary morbidity is 18.8% with dysfunction of the autograft and/or stenosis of the pulmonary homograft. Despite a limited follow-up, aortic valve replacement by a pulmonary homograft seems better than aortic valve replacement with a homograft or mechanical prosthesis, especially in cases of complicated infectious endocarditis requiring surgery in the acute phase. Further studies are required to confirm these encouraging results.