Magnetic resonance imaging of the abdominal aorta and iliac vessels using combined 3-D gadolinium-enhanced MRA and gadolinium-enhanced fat-suppressed spoiled gradient echo sequences. This study evaluates a combined protocol consisting of breath hold immediate post gadolinium 3-D gradient echo MR angiography and blood pool phase gadolinium-enhanced breath hold 2-D fat-suppressed spoiled gradient echo (SGE) sequences in the examination of diseases of the abdominal aorta and iliac vessels. Thirty-two patients with suspected disease of the abdominal aorta, major aortic branches, or iliac vessels underwent MR angiographic study from January 1996 to January 1997. Examinations were performed on a 1.5 T MR imager using 2-D axial SGE, coronal 3-D fast imaging in steady state precession (3-D FISP) following bolus administration of 40 mL of gadolinium, and axial and coronal blood pool phase gadolinium-enhanced fat-suppressed SGE. Post-processed data, including 3-D reconstructions using maximum intensity projection (MIP), targeted MIP, and multiplanar reconstruction (MPR) were evaluated. MR findings in all patients were correlated as follows: surgery (13 patients), angiography (11 patients), contrast enhanced CT (3 patients), non-contrast enhanced CT (1 patient), color doppler US (2 patients), and previous MR study (2 patients). MR findings correlated closely with findings at surgery or other imaging studies in 31 of 32 patients. One patient had renal artery occlusion that was misinterpreted as mild stenosis. The following vascular diseases were present: aneurysm disease [10 patients: aortic aneurysm (8 patients), inflammatory aneurysm (2 patients)], thoracoabdominal aortic dissection (2 patients), arteriovenous fistula (1 patient), stenoses and/or occlusion of the abdominal aorta, major aortic branches and iliac vessels [12 patients: stenoses and/or occlusion of the abdominal aorta with stenoses of the iliac vessels (9 patients), renal artery stenosis (2 patients), occlusion of the abdominal aorta (1 patient)], and occluded artery to pancreatic transplant artery (1 patient). Five patients had normal studies. The 3-D FISP technique accurately defined the luminal contours of vessels, allowing precise depiction of vessel stenosis (i.e., renal artery stenosis or common iliac artery stenosis) and clear demonstration of relationship of aortic branch vessels (i.e., renal arteries) to underlying aortic pathology (i.e., aortic aneurysm or dissection). Blood pool phase gadolinium-enhanced fat-suppressed SGE images were useful in the evaluation of the external surface of vessel walls, and providing accurate measurement of aneurysm diameter and other associated vascular entities (i.e., inflammatory aneurysm, left-sided IVC). Targeted MIP or MPR reconstruction were important for assessing stenoses of medium sized vessels such as renal arteries and branches of the iliac arteries, and for identifying accessory arteries. The combination of immediate post gadolinium 3-D FISP and blood pool phase gadolinium-enhanced fat-suppressed SGE is useful in the evaluation of the abdominal aorta, major aortic branches and iliac vessels. Immediate post gadolinium 3-D FISP images provides diagnostically useful information regarding vessel luminal contour, while blood pool phase gadolinium-enhanced fat-suppressed SGE provides ancillary information on the vessel wall and surrounding tissue.