Stent-supported reconstruction of the aortoiliac bifurcation with the kissing balloon technique. Bilateral iliac artery obstructions involving the aortic bifurcation or high-grade stenosis of the abdominal aorta are not usually considered an indication for percutaneous treatment. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the initial and long-term results of primary stent implantation for reconstruction of the aortic bifurcation.In 48 patients with obstructions of the aortoiliac segment, primary stent implantation was performed with the "kissing balloon technique." Preinterventional angiography showed bilateral stenoses (>85%) of the proximal common iliac arteries in 25 patients, unilateral occlusions and contralateral stenosis in 22 patients, and bilateral occlusion in 1 patient. In 7 cases, stents were placed for the treatment of high-grade infrarenal aortic stenoses. After excimer laser-assisted recanalization of the common iliac artery obstructions, the aortic bifurcation was reconstructed with the bilateral simultaneous implantation of Palmaz stents (diameter, 7 to 8 mm). Stents used for the treatment of aortic stenoses (Palmaz, n=6 Gianturco, n=1) had a diameter ranging from 20 to 25 mm. In all patients, stents were placed successfully (residual stenosis <30%) and without complications. A clinical improvement of +2 to +3 according to American Heart Association criteria was observed in 41 and 7 patients, respectively. Follow-up was performed clinically (standardized treadmill testing and color-coded Doppler ultrasound) and angiographically. The primary angiographic patency rate (24-month follow-up) was 86.8%. In 3 patients, angiography revealed significant restenoses, which were successfully treated with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty.Primary stent implantation with the kissing balloon technique is safe and effective for the treatment of aortoiliac obstructions involving the aortic bifurcation and represents a true endovascular alternative to surgery.