The incidence, natural history, and outcome of secondary intervention for persistent collateral flow in the excluded abdominal aortic aneurysm. The goal of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair is the prevention of rupture. Exclusion of the infrarenal AAA by means of operation or endovascular graft placement is an alternative therapy to achieve this goal. However, thrombosis of the excluded aneurysm sac does not always occur and further intervention may be needed. This study examines the efficacy of available screening methods to detect the persistence of aneurysm sac flow and the outcome of secondary procedures to treat this problem.During the past 14 years, 1218 patients have undergone operative retroperitoneal exclusion of AAA. To date, 48 patients have been found to have persistent flow in the excluded AAA sac with duplex scanning. Twenty-seven patients underwent surgical intervention, and seven of these procedures were performed for rupture. Six patients have undergone treatment with interventional techniques (four successfully). The patients were evaluated for preoperative angiographic, anatomic, and comorbid factors that may have predisposed them to failed exclusion. Also, perioperative morbidity and mortality, estimated blood loss, and survival were assessed in the patients who required surgical treatment.There were no perioperative parameters that correlated with postoperative persistent flow in the excluded AAA sac. The mean time to secondary intervention was 51 months (range, 2 to 113 months). Two patients had false-negative computed tomographic angiogram results, eight patients had false-negative angiogram results, and six patients had duplex scan examinations that had initially negative results that were then positive for flow in sac. Reoperation had a 7.4% mortality rate (two deaths) and a median blood loss of 2600 mL, as compared with 500 mL for primary procedures.Secondary operations for patent excluded aortic aneurysm sacs have higher mortality and intraoperative blood loss rates than do primary procedures for AAA repair. The localization of branch leaks with computerized tomographic angiography, angiography, and duplex scanning were imprecise, and better methods are needed to adequately diagnose patent sacs. Expansion of AAA sac may be the only reliable factor.