Efficacy and durability of autogenous saphenous vein conduits for lower extremity arterial reconstructions in preadolescent children. Limb length discrepancies (LLDs) in growing children may accompany extremity arterial occlusions. Revascularization with vein grafts has been questioned because of degenerative graft changes observed at other sites. This study was undertaken to define vein graft durability and efficacy in lower extremity revascularizations in preadolescent children.Fourteen children (10 boys, 4 girls) with a mean age of 7.3 years (range, 2-11 years) who underwent 16 lower extremity revascularizations with greater saphenous vein grafts were subjected to follow-up with graft ultrasonography, ankle/brachial indices (ABIs) with and without exercise, and limb length determinations. A mean of 5.7 years elapsed between the onset of ischemia and operation. Arterial occlusions resulted from cardiac catheterizations (11), arteritis (1), dialysis cannulation (1), and penetrating trauma (1). Indications for operation included LLD (6), claudication (4), both LLD and claudication (3), markedly diminished ABIs with a potential for LLD (2), and a traumatic transection with hemorrhage (1). The reconstructions with 15 reversed and one in situ vein grafts included iliofemoral (11), femorofemoral (1), aortofemoral (1), femoropopliteal (1), popliteal-popliteal (1), and popliteal-posterior tibial (1) arterial bypass grafts.Among patent grafts available for follow-up, 36% (5 of 14) remained unchanged, 50% (7 of 14) developed nonaneurysmal dilatation, and 14% (2 of 14) exhibited nonprogressive aneurysmal expansion. One graft became occluded, and one graft was lost to follow-up. Collectively, the grafts manifest an 11.2% expansion at an average of 10.7 years postoperatively. ABIs increased from 0.75 preoperatively to 0.97, at an average of 11.0 years postoperatively. LLDs were reduced from 1.66 to 1.24 cm, at an average of 11.4 years postoperatively.Vein graft reconstructions of lower extremity arteries in preadolescent children are durable. They provide an efficacious means of restoring normal blood flow, and in 70% of children their preexisting LLDs were reduced.