Identification and implications of transgraft microleaks after endovascular repair of aortic aneurysms. The purpose of this report is to describe an interesting cause of endoleak and detail-specific techniques for identifying small transgraft defects, which we have termed microleaks.Four patients underwent endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms with modular nitinol/polyester endoprostheses and were studied after 6 to 30 months. All patients were enrolled in standard follow-up radiographic surveillance protocols.Three of the four abdominal aortic aneurysms continued to expand after endograft repair. Standard computed tomography imaging with precontrast, dynamic contrast, and delayed imaging frequently identifies endoleak, although it fails to precisely identify microleaks as the source. Color flow duplex ultrasound scan was performed on three patients and perigraft "jets," small areas of color flow adjacent to the endograft, were identified in all. Microleaks were identified in one patient who underwent digital subtraction arteriography with directed efforts to completely opacify the prosthesis lumen and multiple oblique projections. In another patient, contrast arteriography with balloon occlusion of the distal endograft clearly depicted midgraft microleaks that might otherwise be mistaken for graft porosity or cuff junction endoleaks. No microleaks were diagnosed on angiograms when these directed efforts were not performed. Aneurysm exploration before aortic clamping provided conclusive determination of the presence of blood flow through the wall of the endoprosthesis in two patients.Microleaks occur up to 2.5 years after endovascular repair of aortic aneurysms. Although computed tomography demonstrates the presence of an endoleak in these patients, the exact site of origin usually remains obscure. Doppler ultrasound scan and directed arteriography appear to be of greater utility for identifying the presence and location of microleaks. Balloon occlusion arteriography and aneurysm exploration without arterial clamping provide definitive evidence of microleaks. Although the clinical significance of microleaks remains unclear, long-term monitoring of patients is imperative to diagnose and treat these and other modes of endograft failure before they progress to aneurysm rupture.