An animal model of abdominal aortic aneurysm created with peritoneal patch: technique and initial results. The purpose of this study was to develop an abdominal aortic aneurysm model that more closely resembles the morphology of human aneurysms with potential for further growth of the sac. An infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) model was created with a double-layered peritoneal patch in 27 domestic swine. The patch, measuring in average from 6 to 12 cm in length and from 2 to 3 cm in width, was sutured to the edge of an aortotomy. Pre- and postsurgical digital subtraction aortograms (DSA) were obtained to document the appearance and dimensions of the aneurysm. All animals were followed with DSA for up to 5 months. Laparoscopic examination enhanced by the use of laparoscopic ultrasound was also carried out in 2 animals to assess the aneurysm at 30 and 60 days following surgery. Histological examination was performed on 4 animals. All the animals that underwent the surgical creation of the AAA survived the surgical procedure. Postsurgical DSA demonstrated the presence of the AAA in all animals, defined as more than 50% increase in diameter. The aneurysmal mean diameter increased from the baseline of 10.27 +/- 1.24 to 16.69 +/- 2.29 mm immediately after surgery, to 27.6 +/- 6.59 mm at 14 days, 32.45 +/- 8.76 mm at 30 days (p < 0.01), and subsequently decreased to 25.98 +/- 3.75 mm at 60 days. A total of 15 animals died of aneurysmal rupture that occurred more frequently in the long aneurysms (> or =6 cm in length) than the short aneurysms (<6 cm in length) during the first 2 weeks after surgery (p <0.05). No rupture occurred beyond 16 days after surgery. Four animals survived and underwent 60-day angiographic follow-up. Laparoscopic follow-up showed strong pulses, a reddish external appearance and undetectable suture lines on the aneurysmal wall. On pathology, the patches were well incorporated into the aortic wall, the luminal wall appeared almost completely endothelialized, and cellular and matrix proliferation were noted in the aneurysmal wall. A reproducible technique for the creation of an infrarenal AAA model was developed using a peritoneal patch in swine. The aneurysm model proved to have potential for further growth of the sac and a tendency to rupture. Because of the growth potential, this might be a better model than those with a noncompliant aneurysmal wall for the preclinical evaluation of stent-graft devices.