Primary endovascular repair of juxtarenal aneurysms with fenestrated endovascular grafting. To evaluate outcomes of an endovascular graft incorporating the visceral aortic segment with graft material in the setting of juxtarenal aneurysms.A prospective analysis of patients undergoing implantation of an endovascular device with graft material proximal to the renal arteries was conducted. All patients were deemed unacceptable candidates for open surgical repair and had proximal neck length=<10 mm, or =<15 mm with a compromising morphology (funnel or thrombus). Fenestrations were customized to accommodate aortic branch anatomy based upon CT and intravascular ultrasound data. Selective visceral ostia were treated with balloon expandable stents following endograft deployment. All patients were evaluated with CT, duplex ultrasound, and abdominal radiograph at discharge, 1, 6, 12 and 24 months.A total of 32 patients were enrolled in the trial. Short proximal necks (3-10 mm) were present in 22, and 10 had necks 10-15 mm in length with concomitant angulation or thrombus compromising neck quality. Endograft design included bifurcated (30) and aortic tube (2) systems. A total of 83 visceral vessels were incorporated (mean of 2.6 per patient). These most commonly included both renal arteries and the SMA. All prostheses were implanted successfully without the acute loss of any visceral arteries. The mean follow-up was 9.2 months (range 0-24 months). One patient died within 30 days of device implantation and hypogastric bypass following the development of aspiration pneumonia. Three early (<30 days) and three late secondary interventions were performed. The 30-day endoleak rate was 6.5%. The aneurysm sac decreased greater than 5 mm in 58% of patients at 6 months and in 75% of patients at 12 months. One patient, with a persistent type II endoleak had 5 mm of sac growth over 12 months. Six patients had transient or permanent elevation of serum creatinine (>30% from baseline), with one requiring hemodialysis. Of the 83 vessels incorporated, three late stenoses (all successfully treated with an endovascular approach) and two renal occlusions were detected during follow-up. Three patients died of unrelated causes during the follow-up period.The placement of endovascular prostheses with graft material incorporating the visceral arteries is technically feasible. The incidence of endoleaks is exceptionally low. It remains critical to follow the status of stented visceral vessels, and establish the long-term efficacy of this type of repair.