Role of prophylactic temporary inferior vena cava filters placed at the ICU bedside under intravascular ultrasound guidance in patients with multiple trauma. Patients with multiple trauma often have injuries that preclude the use of anticoagulation therapy or sequential compression device prophylaxis. Temporary inferior vena cava (IVC) filters (IVCFs) offer protection against pulmonary embolism during the early immediate injury and perioperative period, when risk is highest, while averting potential long-term sequelae of permanent IVCFs. The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of prophylactic, temporary IVCF placement at the intensive care unit bedside under real-time intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) guidance in patients with multiple trauma.Ninety-four patients with multiple trauma seen between July 1, 2002, and November 1, 2003, underwent placement of OptEase (Cordis Endovascular) retrievable IVCFs under real-time IVUS guidance. Mean (+/-SD) Injury Severity Score was 25.1 +/- 2.2). Abdominal x-ray films were obtained in all patients to verify filter location. Before IVCF retrieval all patients underwent femoral vein color-flow ultrasound scanning to rule out deep vein thrombosis (DVT), and pre-procedure and post-procedure vena cavography to identify possible IVCF thrombus entrapment and post-retrieval inferior vena cava injury.Nineteen patients died of their injuries no deaths were related to IVCF placement. One pulmonary embolism occurred during follow-up after filter retrieval, and 1 insertion site femoral vein DVT occurred. As verified on abdominal x-ray films, 96.8% (91 of 94) of IVCFs were placed without complications at the L2-3 level. Filter-related complications included 2 groin hematomas (2.1%) and 3 IVCFs misplaced in the right iliac vein (3.2%), early in our experienceProphylactic, temporary IVCF placement at the intensive care unit bedside under IVUS guidance in patients with multiple trauma is simple and safe, and serves as an effective "bridge" to anticoagulation therapy until venous thromboembolism prophylaxis can be initiated. Further investigation of this bedside technique and the role of temporary IVCFs in patients with multiple trauma is warranted.Patients with multiple trauma often have injuries that preclude the use of anticoagulation therapy or sequential compression device prophylaxis. Temporary inferior vena cava filters (IVCFs) offer protection against pulmonary embolism during the perioperative and immediate injury period, when risk is highest. Ninety-four patients with multiple trauma underwent prophylactic, temporary IVCF placement at the intensive care unit bedside under real-time intravascular ultrasound. One pulmonary embolism occurred during follow-up after filter retrieval, and 1 insertion site femoral vein deep venous thrombosis occurred. Ninety-one of 94 IVCFs (96.8%) were placed without complication. Thirty-one patients underwent uneventful retrieval of IVCFs after anticoagulation prophylaxis was initiated. Forty-four filters were not removed, because of severity of injury (n = 41) or because of trapped thrombus within the filter (n = 3). Prophylactic, temporary IVCFs placed under intravascular ultrasound guidance at the bedside in patients with multiple trauma is simple, safe, and an effective bridge to anticoagulation therapy.