Cannulation of the extrathoracic left common carotid artery for thoracic aorta operations through left posterolateral thoracotomy. The femoral artery is the usual site of arterial cannulation in thoracic aorta operations through left posterolateral thoracotomy that require cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) with deep hypothermic circulatory arrest (DHCA). The advantage of this perfusion route is in limiting the duration of circulatory arrest. It is associated, however, with the risk of retrograde embolization or, in cases involving aortic dissection, malperfusion of vital organs. To prevent these risks, we have used the extrathoracic left common carotid artery as the perfusion route. From December 1999 to January 2003, we used cannulation of the left extrathoracic common carotid artery in 42 thoracic aorta operations through posterolateral thoracotomy with an open proximal anastomosis technique during DHCA. The indication for thoracic aortic repair was atherosclerotic ulcer in 7 cases, chronic aortic aneurysm in 18, acute type B dissection in 5, and chronic type B dissection in 12. Cannulation of the extrathoracic left common carotid artery was successful in all patients. Postoperative recovery was uneventful, with no cerebrovascular events in all cases. No cannulation-related complications were observed. One patient died from cardiac insufficiency on postoperative day 5. No peripheral neurological deficits (paraplegia or paraparesis) were observed. Postoperative complications included atrial fibrillation in five patients, reoperation to control hemorrhage in six, respiratory insufficiency in nine, and renal insufficiency in six. These results indicate that cannulation of the left extrathoracic common carotid artery is a useful, reliable method for proximal perfusion during CPB in patients undergoing repair of the descending thoracic aorta through left posterolateral thoracotomy. By providing effective perfusion of the brain, this technique can prolong safe DHCA time. Another advantage is the prevention of cerebral emboli, ensuring retrograde flow to the aortic arch.