Compliance of abdominal aortic aneurysms evaluated by tissue Doppler imaging: correlation with aneurysm size. Several studies have shown that an increase in abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) growth rate occurs when the diameter reaches 40 to 50 mm. AAA expansion is related to remodeling of the parietal extracellular matrix. The parietal mechanisms involved in this critical phase of sudden increase remain unexplained. Analysis of AAA wall movements and determination of AAA compliance may provide information about the constitution of the arterial wall. If a change in parietal wall motion somewhere between 40 and 50 mm could be shown, this would contribute to the understanding of the growth of AAA. Furthermore, it would provide a valuable additional parameter for AAA monitoring. This study had two aims: first, to evaluate the relationship between AAA compliance and maximum diameter using the tissue Doppler imaging system and second, to test the hypothesis of a change in AAA behavior at around 45 mm in diameter.Fifty-six patients with AAA (mean diameter, 39 mm) were prospectively investigated using the tissue Doppler imaging system, which provides information concerning arterial wall motion. Maximum mean segmental dilation (MMSD), segmental compliance, pressure strain elastic modulus (Ep), and stiffness were determined and related to the maximum diameter of AAA. Results After natural log transformation of all variables, there was a significant positive linear relationship between maximum diameter and both MMSD (P < .001) and segmental compliance (P < .001) but not with Ep or stiffness (P = .37 and .22, respectively). MMSD and segmental compliance were significantly higher in AAA > or = 45 mm than in AAA < 45 mm (P < .0002 and <. 004, respectively). Ep and stiffness tended to decrease in larger AAAs, but this was not statistically significant (P < .43 and .24, respectively). Dispersion of Ep and stiffness values seemed to be wider among AAA < 45 mm compared with those > or = 45 mm.Compliance parameters can easily be measured during routine AAA ultrasound monitoring using the tissue Doppler imaging system. The study showed an increase in MMSD and segmental compliance as well as a nonsignificant trend toward increased distensibility (decreased Ep and stiffness) with increased AAA diameter. A change in dispersion of AAA distensibility may appear around 45 mm in diameter, but a larger study will be needed to clarify this.