Splanchnic artery aneurysms. Splanchnic artery aneurysms are uncommon but important vascular entity because nearly 25% of all cases present as surgical emergency.The purpose of our study was to present nine patients operated on at the Institute of cardiovascular diseases, as well as literature review of clinical presentation of the disease.There were three splenic artery aneurysms, two celiac trunk aneurysms, and one aneurysm of the hepatic, superior mesenteric, inferior mesenteric and gastroduodenal artery. All patients were males, mean aged 67.5 years (60-73). In four patients, splanchnic artery aneurysm was discovered accidentally during routine ultrasonographic and angiographic examinations of the abdominal aorta. At that time, arteriovenous fistula was diagnosed in a patient No 1 it was formed after rupture of the splenic artery aneurysm into the splenic vein. Three aneurysms were manifested by abdominal pain and palpable pulsating abdominal mass. Two patients were admitted as urgent cases in the state of hemorrhagic shock and signs of intraabdominal bleeding due to rupture of the splenic and hepatic arteries. In 7 cases, diagnosis was made preoperatively by means of ultrasonography and angiographyProximal and distal ligation of the artery was performed in a patient with rupture of the splenic aneurysm into the splenic vein that caused arteriovenous fistula. Gastroduodenal artery aneurysm was treated by trans-aneurysmatic ligation of its "entering" and "exiting" branches. Aneurysms of distal part of the superior mesenteric and splenic artery were resected without further reconstruction. Partial resection of the aneurysm and endoaneurysmorrhaphy was carried out in one case of celiac trunk aneurysm, and in another, after aneurysm resection, the restoration of blood flow through the hepatic and lienal artery was achieved by Dacron grafts. In a patient with the inferior mesenteric artery aneurysm, the resection of aneurysm was followed by reimplantation of medial part of the artery into bifurcated Dacron graft which replaced abdominal aorta. In 5 patients, some of additional surgical procedures were performed. There were 4 reconstructive procedures of abdominal aorta and one splenectomy. The patient with ruptured hepatic artery aneurysm died during surgery due to uncontrolled hemorrhage. In other patients, there was neither morbidity nor mortality in the early postoperative period (first 30 days after surgery). Mean follow up was 1 to 5 years (mean 3.4 years). One patient died after 5 years due to myocardial infarction.Although the introduction of precise diagnostic procedures (computerized tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, spiral scan) make diagnosis easier, the splanchnic artery aneurysms are still difficult to detect due to their uncommon clinical presentations.