Durability of renal artery stents in patients with transrenal abdominal aortic endografts. The management of renal artery stenosis in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms continues to be complex and technically challenging despite advances in endovascular therapy. There is growing concern about the durability of renal artery stents in the setting of transrenal abdominal aortic endografts. This study reports a single-center experience of renal artery stenting with transrenal abdominal aortic endografts for patients with renal artery stenosis.All patients undergoing endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair preceded or followed by renal artery stent placement between January 1999 and December 2005 were retrospectively reviewed from a prospectively gathered endovascular database. Patients were surveyed after renal stent procedures with multidetector computed tomography angiography or duplex sonography. The surveillance data were analyzed for primary patency of the renal artery stent at 6 months, incidence of complications, need for secondary interventions, and changes in creatinine clearance (CrCl).Sixty-two renal artery stents were placed in 56 patients (44 men, 12 women) with a mean age of 77.3 years (range, 61 to 94 years). Forty-one were placed before the endograft procedure, eight were placed during the endograft procedure, and 13 were placed postoperatively. There were no major or minor complications related to the renal artery stent procedures. Transrenal aortic endografts were used in 44 of the 56 patients, and 12 had devices with infrarenal fixation. The mean follow-up was 18.5 months (range, 1 to 73 months). The 6-month primary patency, which could be evaluated for 51 renal artery stents, was 97.4% (37/38) in patients with transrenal fixation and 84.6% (11/13) in patients with infrarenal fixation. The overall rate of in-stent restenosis was 8.5% (4/47) in the transrenal fixation group and 20.0% (3/15) in the infrarenal fixation group. The overall occlusion rate was 2.1% (1/47) in the transrenal fixation group and 0% (0/15) in infrarenal fixation group. Five (83.3%) of six patients underwent successful treatment of in-stent restenosis with placement of a new stent in all five cases. CrCl decreased in the total group by 4.2 +/- 11.8 mL/min, by 4.7 +/- 12.0 mL/min in patients with transrenal fixation, and by 2.2 +/- 11.0 mL/min in patients with infrarenal fixation.The presence of a transrenal aortic endograft did not affect the outcome of the renal artery revascularization procedure in this cohort. Renal artery stenting in the presence of transrenal abdominal aortic endografts appears to be a safe procedure without adverse effect on renal artery stent patency or renal function.