Ultrasound surveillance of endovascular aneurysm repair: a safe modality versus computed tomography. Routine ultrasound surveillance is adequate and safe for monitoring endovascular aneurysm repairs (EVARs). A retrospective chart review including 160 endograft patients was performed from August 2000 to September 2005. All ultrasound examinations (n = 359) were performed by a board-certified vascular surgery group's accredited laboratory. Registered vascular technologists utilized the same equipment consisting of Siemens Antares high-definition ultrasonography with tissue harmonics and color flow Doppler. An identical protocol was followed by each technologist: scan body and both limbs of the endograft and distal iliac vessels, measure anterior-posterior aneurysm sac size, and detect intrasac pulsatility and color flow. Statistical analysis utilized Pearson's correlation coefficient and the paired t-test. Forty-one endoleaks were discovered out of the 359 exams (11.4%). There were type I (7, 17%), type II (26, 63%), and combined type I with type II (8, 20%) endoleaks. Correlation with computed tomography (CT) was obtained in 35 of these cases. CT discovered three endoleaks that were not seen with ultrasound. However, these particular ultrasound exams were inadequate due to additional factors (bowel gas, body habitus, hernia), which prompted CT investigation and, hence, endoleak discovery. Of the 41 endoleaks found on ultrasound, only 14 were seen on CT. Specifically, 26 type II endoleaks were seen with ultrasound versus only nine during CT. Additional factors addressed included comparison between ultrasound and CT of residual aneurysm sac measurements and conditions limiting ultrasound examination. Although criticized in the past, color flow ultrasonography is a safe and effective modality for surveillance of aortic endografts. Utilizing ultrasound to analyze abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) sac dimensions and endoleak detection is statistically sound for screening AAA status post-EVAR.