Neoarteries grown in vivo using a tissue-engineered hyaluronan-based scaffold. Vascular tissue engineering has emerged as a promising technology for the design of an ideal, responsive, living conduit with properties similar to that of native tissue. The missing link in tissue-engineered blood vessels is elastin biosynthesis. Several biomaterials are currently used but few support elastin biosynthesis in a 3-D array. In previous studies, we demonstrated that a hyaluronan-based scaffold (HYAFF-11) grafted in the infrarenal rat aorta successfully guided the complete regeneration of a well-functioning small-diameter (2 mm) neoartery. The aim of the present study was to test the ability of HYAFF-11 biodegradable grafts to develop into neovessels of larger size (4 mm) in a porcine model, focusing on extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling and elastin biosynthesis. HYAFF-11 tubes (diameter 4 mm, length 5 cm) were implanted in an end-to-end fashion in the common carotid artery. Grafts were analyzed for patency with a Duplex scan every 15 days. ECM components were evaluated by histological and molecular biological methods. All the animals survived the observation period without complications. Intimal hyperplasia (initiating at the anastomotic site) and graft thrombosis led to 3 cases of partial or complete occlusion, as demonstrated by histological examination. There were no signs of stenoses or aneurysms in the remaining grafts. After 5 months, the biomaterial was almost completely degraded and replaced by a neoartery segment composed of mature smooth muscle cells, collagen, and elastin fibers organized in layers and was completely covered on the luminal surface by endothelial cells (vWF(+)). Whereas in previous small animal studies, patency rates were not optimal, those obtained in the present study using hyaluronan-based grafts of larger size confirmed the ability of these constructs to guide the development of a well-functioning neoartery, with the remarkable additional attribute of facilitating the formation of organized layers of elastin fibers.