Intravascular ultrasound-guided true lumen reentry device for recanalization of unilateral chronic total occlusion of iliac arteries: technique and follow-up. Endovascular revascularization of chronic total occlusion (CTO) of the iliac arteries is rapidly becoming first-line treatment, with surgical aortofemoral bypass procedures reserved for failure of endovascular treatment. Percutaneous subintimal recanalization is the most common endovascular revascularization technique for CTO of the iliac arteries. The primary reason for failure of the subintimal recanalization technique is failure to reenter the true lumen. This report describes the benefits of using true lumen reentry devices to improve the success and safety of conventional subintimal recanalization for revascularization of CTO of the iliac arteries.This is a retrospective review of 11 patients with CTO of the iliac arteries in whom true lumen reentry was not successful using conventional subintimal recanalization. An intravascular ultrasound (IVUS)-guided true lumen reentry device was used in all patients to assist true lumen reentry. Clinical records, procedural records, angiographic imaging, and follow-up data were analyzed. Indications for intervention, length and location of the lesion treated, access site(s), location of true lumen reentry, stent use, procedural times, technical success, and complications were analyzed in all patients.The technical success of true lumen reentry at the desired point was 100%. Total procedure time from the start of reentry device manipulation to achieve reentry was <10 min (routinely <5 min). Mean patient follow-up was 10.5 months. At follow-up, all patients had palpable femoral pulses. The ankle-brachial index normalized (>0.9) in six patients and improved significantly in the remaining five patients. Rest pain resolved and claudication improved in all patients. Out of seven patients who had foot ulcers, the ulcers healed completely in five and demonstrated improved healing in two, with the clinical manifestation of osteomyelitis resolved in two. No procedure-related complications were noted. The amputation-free survival was 100%.True lumen reentry devices greatly improve the technical success and safety of percutaneous recanalization procedures in CTO of the iliac arteries. There are significant reductions in procedure time and complication rates associated with the use of these devices.