Posthepatic obstructive jaundice caused by primary extragonadal germ-cell tumor in a patient with glucose-6-phosphatase dehydrogenase deficiency. In patients with glucose-6-phosphatase dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency (favism) jaundice is usually caused by hemolysis due to stress, infection or following the application of drugs. We report on a 74-year-old Italian with known G6PD deficiency complaining of jaundice, weight loss and abdominal pain. Physical examination revealed jaundice of the eyes. Scrotal examination by palpation and ultrasound showed no abnormalities.Serum levels of beta-human chorionic gonadotropin and alpha-fetoprotein were within normal limits, total bilirubin was extremely elevated, with predominant direct bilirubin. Abdominal ultrasound showed posthepatic blockage of bile flow with a dilated ductus hepatocholedochus (DHC) in the absence of gallstones. Enlarged, multiple contrast-stained paraaortic and retroperitoneal lymph nodes were detected by endoscopic ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging. Due to failed endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, visualization of the biliary tree by percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography (PTC) was performed showing an occlusion of the DHC.After successful stent-implantation by PTC with decompression of the biliary tree, the jaundice disappeared. Computer tomography-guided percutaneous biopsy of a retroperitoneal lymph node was performed for histological evaluation showing a primary extragonadal nonseminomatous germ cell tumor. According to the histology (embryonic carcinoma) and clinical stage of the tumor systemic chemotherapy was initiated including cisplatin, etoposide and ifosfamide. After the first cycle of chemotherapy the patient suffered from pneumonia leading to septic shock. Twenty-seven days after admission, the patient died of multiple organ failure.Extragonadal germ-cell tumor presenting as retroperitoneal lymph nodes with obstructive jaundice has to be considered in the differential diagnosis of cholestasis.