Is heparin reversal required for the safe performance of percutaneous endovascular aortic aneurysm repair? Percutaneous endovascular aneurysm repair (PEVAR) can be performed with high technical success rates and low morbidity rates. Several peer-reviewed papers regarding PEVAR have routinely combined heparin reversal with protamine before sheath removal. The risks of protamine reversal are well documented and include cardiovascular collapse and anaphylaxis. The aim of this study is to review outcomes of patients who underwent PEVAR without heparin reversal.All patients who underwent percutaneous femoral artery closure after PEVAR between 2009-2012 without heparin reversal were reviewed. Only patients who underwent placement of large-bore (12- to 24-French) sheaths were included. Patient demographics, comorbidities, operative details, and complications were reported.One hundred thirty-one common femoral arteries were repaired using the Preclose technique in 76 patients. Fifty-five patients underwent bilateral repair and 21 underwent unilateral repair. The mean age was 73.9±9.1 years. The mean heparin dose administered was 79±25.4 U/kg. The mean patient body mass index was 27.5±4.8 kg/m2. Ultrasound-guided arterial puncture was performed in all patients. Average operative times were 196.5±103.3 min, and the mean estimated blood loss was 277.6 mL. Four femoral arteries (3%) required open surgical repair after failed hemostasis with ProGlide closure (Abbott Vascular, Abbott Park, IL). Two patients required deployment of a third ProGlide device with successful closure. Two patients had small (<3 cm) groin hematomas that had resolved at the time of the postoperative computed tomography scan. No pseudoaneurysms or arteriovenous fistulas developed in our patient cohort. No early or late thrombotic complications were noted. One patient (1.3%) with a ruptured aneurysm died 48 hours after endovascular repair unrelated to femoral closure.PEVAR may be performed with low patient morbidity after therapeutic heparinization without heparin reversal. Femoral artery repair after the removal of large-diameter sheaths using the Preclose technique can be performed in this setting with minimal rates of early and late bleeding or thrombosis.