Predictive factors for limb occlusions after endovascular aneurysm repair. Greater flexibility and smaller sizes for introducer sheaths in the newest stent grafts increase the feasibility of endovascular aneurysm repair but raise concerns about long-term limb patency. The aim of the study was to determine the incidence of and predictive factors for limb occlusion after use of the Endurant stent graft (Medtronic Inc, Minneapolis, Minn) for abdominal aortic aneurysm.The Endurant Stent Graft Natural Selection Global Postmarket Registry (ENGAGE) prospectively included 1143 patients treated with bifurcated devices who were observed for up to 2 years. Limb occlusions were evidenced by computed tomography, angiography, or ultrasound. To predict stent graft limb occlusion, a two-step model-building technique was applied. We first identified predictors from a total of 47 covariates obtained at baseline and in the periprocedural period. Subsequently, we reduced the set of potential predictors to key factors that are clinically meaningful. To handle large numbers of covariates, we used the Classification And Regression Tree (CART) method.Forty-two stent graft limbs occluded in 39 patients (3.4% of the patients). At 2 years, the rate of freedom from stent graft limb occlusion calculated by Kaplan-Meier plot was 97.9% (standard error [SE], 0.33%). Of the 42 occlusions, 13 (31%) were observed within 30 days and 30 (71%) within 6 months. The strongest independent predictors were distal landing zone on the external iliac artery, external iliac artery diameter ≤10 mm, and kinking. High-risk vs low-risk patients were identified according to a decision tree based on the strongest predictors. Freedom from stent graft limb occlusion was 96.1% (SE, 0.64%) in high-risk patients vs 99.6% (SE, 0.19%) in low-risk patients.After Endurant stent grafting, the incidence of limb occlusion was low. Classifying patients as high risk vs low risk according to the algorithm used in this study may help define specific strategies to prevent limb occlusion and improve the overall results of endovascular aneurysm repair using the latest generation of stent grafts.