Feasibility of Catheter Placement Under Ultrasound Guidance for Progressive Preoperative Pneumoperitoneum for Large Incisional Hernia with Loss of Domain. Large incisional hernias with loss of domain (LIHLD) of the abdominal wall remain a therapeutic challenge due to the difficulty of replacing the contents of the hernia sac into the peritoneal cavity. Preoperative progressive pneumoperitoneum (PPP) is a valuable option. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of peritoneal catheter insertion under ultrasound guidance for PPP and to compare the morbidity and mortality of this new technique to previously used techniques in our department.Medical records were reviewed retrospectively from February 1989 to April 2013 in a single institution. Three different techniques of PPP were evaluated: surgical subcutaneous implantable port (SIP), surgical peritoneal dialysis catheter (PDC), and radiologic multipurpose drainage catheter (MDC). Collected data included patients' age, sex, body mass index, medical and surgical history, hernia location, PPP technique, length of hospitalization, volume of air injected, morbidity and mortality linked to PPP, and the procedure of hernia repair.Thirty-seven patients with a mean age of 63.1 years were evaluated. Progressive preoperative pneumoperitoneum was performed using SIP, PDC, and MDC for 14, 11, and 12 patients, respectively. Overall morbidity related to the technique was seen in 36 % of SIP, 27 % of PDC, and 0 % of MDC. One patient from the SIP group died on the 3rd postoperative day due to septic shock following aspiration pneumonia. No postoperative mortality in the other groups was observed.The MDC is an interesting modification of the original technique and is a safe procedure. It is a minimally invasive technique with a very low risk of perforation of the viscera. Therefore, the use of a non-absorbable prosthesis with MDC technique can be offered for all patients undergoing PPP without increasing the risk of infection.