Aortic and mitral valve replacement with reconstruction of the intervalvular fibrous body. The intervalvular fibrous body between the aortic and mitral valves can be damaged by infective endocarditis, degenerative calcification, or multiple previous heart valve operations, making double valve replacement difficult. We have managed this problem by approaching the aortic and mitral valves through the aortic root and the dome of the left atrium. After excising the aortic valve, the diseased fibrous body, and the mitral valve, we suture a properly tailored patch of Dacron fabric or bovine pericardium to the lateral and medial fibrous trigones and to the aortic root, reestablishing the aortic and mitral anuli. A prosthetic mitral valve is implanted and a separate patch is used to close the left atriotomy before implantation of a prosthetic aortic valve. This study was undertaken to determine the efficacy of this operation.Forty-three patients underwent reconstruction of the intervalvular fibrous body during aortic and mitral valve replacement because of infective endocarditis with abscess in 14 patients, extensive calcification in 9, lack of fibrous tissue because of multiple previous operations in 10, and to enlarge the aortic and mitral anuli in 10. The group comprised 18 men and 25 women with a mean age of 58 +/- 12 years. Thirty-two patients had had one or more previous heart valve replacements. All patients were in New York Heart Association functional classes III and IV, and 9 patients were in shock before the operation.Seven operative deaths occurred (16%). Early prosthetic valve endocarditis developed in two patients and necessitated reoperation. Follow-up extended from 4 to 108 months, with a mean of 38 months. No patient was lost to follow-up. Six late deaths occurred. The actuarial survival at 6 years was 56% +/- 6%. A Doppler echocardiographic study revealed normal prosthetic valve function and anatomically intact anuli in all 30 long-term survivors.Reconstruction of the intervalvular fibrous body during aortic and mitral valve replacement is a satisfactory operative approach in patients with complex valve annular pathology.