Modification of the surgical strategy based on intraoperative echographic findings of atherosclerotic ascending aorta. To prevent the atheroembolic complications such as brain infarction due to the manipulation of atherosclerotic ascending aorta during cardiac surgery, the ascending aorta of 55 patients including 6 emergencies (mean age: 67.7 +/- 6.9 years, valvular disease: n = 12, ischemic heart disease only or combined with valvular disease: n = 43) were evaluated with intraoperative echography as a routine, to enable a proper placement of the cannulae, clamp etc. Irregular elevated lesions into the aortic lumen from the intima were identified in 7 patients (13%, mean age: 71.0 +/- 6.9 years) of ischemic heart disease, which included 2 emergent cases. Arch cannulation was employed in 3 patients with wide-spread lesions on the posterior wall and femoral cannulation was done in 1 patient with wide-spread lesions on the anterior wall. Two of these patients received CABG with in situ arterial conduits under ventricular fibrillation, and the other 2 patients received CABG with aortic cross clamping at the lesion-free site during proximal anastomosis of vein grafts (single clamp technique). Two patients with localized lesion were done CABG with partial aortic clamping and one of them had cerebral infarction during the operation. We recognized that manipulation of the ascending aorta has to be done with a meticulous care and well away from the diseased site. In another patient with localized lesion, the arch cannulation and the single clamp technique were used 2 cm away from that lesion. The brain infarcted patient completely recovered without any sequelae and the others also had no atheroembolic complications. Although calcified lesions on CT were correlated with atheromatous lesions on echogram (p = 0.004), these atheromatous plaques were not detected by enhanced CT, except in only one patient. For screening of the atherosclerosis of ascending aorta, the CT examination was not so effective and the intraoperative echography was the most sensitive and could be easily accomplished. In conclusion, in order to prevent the atheroembolism that might occur due to the improper manipulation of the diseased ascending aorta during usual procedures, surgical strategies have to be modified according to the position, extent and quality of the atherosclerotic lesions, diagnosed by intraoperative echoscanning of the aorta.