Prospective randomized trial of single clamp technique versus intermittent ischaemic arrest: myocardial and neurological outcome. To explore the hypothesis that intermittent ischaemic arrest (IIA) provides better myocardial preservation but generates a larger number of cerebral microemboli (ME) and consequently a higher incidence of post-operative cerebral dysfunction compared with the single clamp technique (SCT).Ninety-one patients with stable angina undergoing elective CABG with no clinical evidence of aortic or cerebro-vascular or neurological disease were prospectively randomized to: IIA (n = 43) or SCT with intermittent anterograde cold blood cardioplegia (n = 48). Myocardial preservation was assessed by measuring serum CK-MB, Troponin-T (TnT) and Troponin-I (TnI) and from pre- and post-operative ECGs and left ventricular (LV) function by echocardiography. Intra-operative cerebral ME were counted by transcranial Doppler of the right middle cerebral artery. All patients completed the Luria Nebraska Neuropsychological Battery (LNNB) tests for motor, visual, reading, memory and intellectual processes the day before surgery and at 1 week and 6 months post-operatively. Serum levels of the neuro-specific protein S-100 were measured.The two groups were comparable for age, sex, extent of coronary disease, previous myocardial infarction, diabetes, hypertension and number of arterial and venous grafts. The median number of ME detected per patient was 34 (range 4-208) and was similar in both groups. Protein S-100 levels remained normal and similar in both groups at all times except in one patient with SCT who had an operative stroke. LNNB scores were similarly depressed at 1 week and recovered in all cases at 6 months. There was no correlation between the number of ME and LNNB scores. Median peak TnI levels were 0.64 microg/l with IIA vs. 0.87 microg/l with SCT (P = NS) and TnT 0.8 microg/l vs. 1.08 microg/l (P < 0.03). SCT was however associated with longer mean ischaemic (67.6 +/- 16.1 vs. 34.5 +/- 16.5 min, P < 0.001) and mean bypass time (88.5 +/- 18.2 vs. 74.6 +/- 26.3 min, P < 0.004) than IIA. Four patients with SCT and none with IIA had ECG changes suggestive of MI (P = 0.04).During elective CABG in patients with no clinical evidence of aortic or cerebro-vascular disease the incidence of peri-operative ME and post-operative neuropsychological disturbances are comparable with both techniques of myocardial preservation. Biochemical analysis suggests that IIA provides more effective myocardial preservation.