Severe foetal growth retardation in a patient with uterus bicornis, velamentous insertion and partial placental abruption in the 26th week of gestation--a case report. Foetal growth retardation (IUGR) occurs in approximately 3-10 % of all pregnancies and may result from foetal, maternal or placenta-related conditions. In IUGR, the placental weight is often reduced and the placental capacity, reflected by the organ's weight, is impaired. Uterine malformations have an incidence of 3-4 % and may be the cause of placental abruptions occurring in 0.4-1.3 % of all pregnancies. We report on a patient in the 26 (th) week of pregnancy who was admitted with vaginal bleeding. A uterus bicornis had been found previously. Sonography showed severe foetal growth retardation and a pathological foetal Doppler signal. A haematoma located cranial of the os uteri was sonographically diagnosed, and a partial placental abruption was suspected. Due to a pathological cardiotocography, a primary Caesarean section was performed. Intraoperative evaluation confirmed the presence of a uterus bicornis. In addition, the placenta showed an insertio velamentosa. The growth retarded foetus - 490 g birth weight - was anaemic. Respiratory therapy and surfactant substitution were performed because of a respiratory distress syndrome. At a corrected age of 8 weeks the boy was sent home without neurological sequelae. In the case reported, a malformation of the uterus was the cause of a pathologically altered placenta. The multiple factors responsible for the described severe intrauterine growth retardation were a low placental weight and thus a reduced placental capacity, an impaired foetal circulation caused by the velamentous insertion, as well as a partial placental abruption. In normotensive pregnancies with IUGR, macroscopic and histopathological examinations of the placenta are therefore strongly recommended. Prior to getting pregnant, the therapeutic options should be explained to women with uterine malformations.