Adnexal masses management: a prospective multicentric observational study. The aim of this study was first to describe the adnexal masses diagnoses and their management and secondly to assess the oncological relevance of these strategies.A prospective multicentric observational study of organic adnexal masses was conducted between June and November 2005. All patients presenting an organic adnexal tumor and for which a definitive histological diagnosis was subsequently available were eligible. Baseline characteristics, mode of discovery, preoperative assessment, peroperative findings, surgical treatment and pathological findings were collected.Among the 278 patients treated for an adnexal mass during the study-period, 166 were included. Mean age was 42.8 years with a 25.3% menopause rate. The radiological assessment comprised an ultrasound examination in 98.8% of cases and an MRI in about one-fourth. The CA 125 marker was measured in half the patients and the carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) marker in 19.9%. In all, 83.1% of tumors were found benign, 12.7% were malignant and 4.2% were borderlines on definitive histological examination. The surgical procedure comprised a cystectomy in 88 cases and an adnexectomy in 64 cases. Among those treated by cystectomy, one borderline tumor was found, whereas in those treated by adnexectomy, five borderline and 12 malignant masses were discovered. Peroperative conversion rates were 16% and 50% in borderline and malignant tumors. Accidental rupture of the cyst occurred in 29% of cases. A minimal preoperative assessment was defined, based upon the dimensions of the tumor and the dosage of at least one marker. These minimal criteria were met in only 28% of initial assessments.Ovarian borderline tumors and carcinomas are an important contingent of this study (16.9%). Twenty percent of them are diagnosed in an emergency situation. The management observed in this study is adapted to benign lesions. On the other hand, the rate of inappropriate procedures as well as incomplete staging in case of borderline or carcinomas is quite high.