Do routine preoperative imaging techniques facilitate the operation in endometrial cancer? To assess the role of routine intravenous pyelography (IVP), rectoscopy and additional imaging techniques like computed tomography (CT) and abdominal ultrasonography (USG) for the evaluation of patients with endometrial cancer.A total of 97 women with endometrial cancer (82 endometrioid and 15 non-endometrioid type) of all stages (Stage I = 65, II = 14, III = 13, IV = 5) were included in the study. Of these, 50 women were admitted because of postmenopausal bleeding, 24 with irregular vaginal bleeding and 7 with pain and leucorrhea, whereas the others had no complaints. Only one patient had symptoms related to the gastrointestinal system, but none for the urinary system. Preoperative CT (n = 45), IVP (n = 78), rectoscopy (n = 46), and USG or colonoscopy (n = 37) were performed on our patients. All the women had total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, with/without pelvic (n = 81) and paraaortic (n = 34) lymphonodectomy, and omentectomy (n = 35).In 39 of 45 women who had CT, it had no effect on the operation and did not facilitate the operation. In two women there were pathological findings on CT and some interventions (resection and anastomosis) were performed on the gastrointestinal tract in these patients. However, CT had overcome pathological findings related with the gastrointestinal or urinary systems in four women, who needed interventions to these systems during the operation. CT was not performed on six women who needed interventions to the gastrointestinal system during the operations. Three patients had pathological findings (fissure, external compression) in rectoscopy, but only one patient had ileo-transverstomy, in which rectoscopic finding had not predicted the necessity of that procedure. Out of 78 IVP, the only finding was external compression to the bladder in 38 patients, and this finding had no contribution to the operation. Among women who had USG or colonoscopy (n = 37) performed, five had pathological findings that contributed to the extensiveness or the mode of the operations (liver nodules, polyps in the colon).Routine preoperative computed tomography, intravenous pyelography, rectoscopy or abdominal USG and colonoscopy have little impact on the decision and the prediction of the extensiveness of the operation.