Does sphere volume affect the performance of three-dimensional power Doppler virtual vascular sampling for predicting malignancy in vascularized solid or cystic-solid adnexal masses? To assess whether, when using spherical sampling with Virtual Organ Computer-Aided Analysis (VOCAL) for calculating three-dimensional (3D) power Doppler angiography (PDA) indices, the sphere volume affects performance in the prediction of malignancy in vascularized cystic-solid or solid adnexal masses.One hundred and thirty-eight women (mean +/- SD age, 51.8 +/- 14.1 years) diagnosed as having vascularized cystic-solid or solid adnexal masses on B-mode and two-dimensional (2D) power Doppler ultrasound were evaluated by 3D-PDA prior to surgery. Five women had bilateral masses, giving a total number of 143 masses analyzed. Vascularization was assessed using VOCAL software. 3D-PDA vascular indices (vascularization index (VI), flow index (FI) and vascularization flow index (VFI)) from the most vascularized area within papillary projections and solid areas were calculated automatically using spherical sampling. Five different volumes of sphere were used (1 cm(3), 2 cm(3), 3 cm(3), 4 cm(3) and 5 cm(3)) in each case. A definitive histological diagnosis was obtained in each case after surgical tumor removal.One hundred and seventeen (82%) masses were malignant and 26 (18%) were benign. Morphological evaluation revealed 34 (24%) unilocular solid masses, 49 (34%) multilocular solid masses and 60 (42%) mostly solid masses. The 1-cm(3) sphere could be used in 100% of the cases, the 2-cm(3) sphere could be used in 98.2% of the cases and the 3-5-cm(3) spheres could be used in 97.2% of the cases. The median VI, FI and VFI for all sphere volumes were significantly higher in malignant compared with non-malignant tumors. Receiver-operating characteristics curve analysis showed that VI and VFI, independently of sphere volume, were better predictors of malignancy than was FI. The best cut-off values for the 3D-PDA indices differed depending on sphere volume. VI was significantly more specific than were VFI and FI.Sphere volume does not affect the performance of 3D-PDA. We recommend the use of different cut-off values for 3D-PDA indices for discriminating between benign and malignant adnexal masses, depending on the sphere volume used. Use of VI is preferable due to its higher specificity.