Three-dimensional reconstruction of a fibro-osseous lesion using binary images transformed from histopathological images. The aim of this report was to introduce a new method of three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction for fibro-osseous lesions (FOLs) using binary images transformed from histopathological images and to describe its usefulness. A sample of multiconfluent FOL was used (one of the five types of FOL according to a radiographic classification) which was diagnosed histopathologically as ossifying fibroma. Approximately 30 pathological images were assembled into a composite image of the slide using Tiling Boutique software version 3 for Windows (Sanyo Electric, Osaka, Japan). The tiling images were transformed into 8-bit scale images and then into binary images using ImageJ software ver.1.37 (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD). These images were used for 3D reconstruction using ImageJ software. Images were loaded at the same matrix size and were reconstructed into layers of two-dimensional image stacks, adjusted so that contiguous images were aligned based on their centre points, and arranged with long axes horizontal. 3D findings aided the visual understanding of morphological features in the lesion. The 3D reconstruction can be displayed with arbitrary rotation. In this case, the 3D reconstruction, using Real Image software version 4.01 for Windows (KGT, Tokyo, Japan), was created from an arbitrary section. This allowed us to determine the pattern of calcification between groups of connected osteoids and to compare the internal structure of such lesions that are not visible on histopathological findings. Differentiation of features was even more pronounced with a two colour display indicating fibrous connective tissue and osteoid tissue. A 3D reconstruction of a multiconfluent ossifying fibroma was created using binary images transformed from histopathological images. The quality of the images depends above all on the functionality of the image-processing software. Comparison of each pattern of FOL might allow more simple assessment of the morphological features of FOLs.