Virtual eversion and rotation of colon based on outer surface centerline. Virtual eversion turns the colon's inner surface to its outside while maintaining the original colon path. The virtually everted colon allows both global and local views of the mucosal surface for observation. However, the conventional colon's inner surface centerline commonly used in virtual colonoscopy and virtual flattening is not suitable for virtual eversion. Therefore, the colon's outer surface centerline is introduced for virtual eversion to produce a more accurate representation.An improved level set segmentation method is presented for generating the colon's outer surface. To achieve eversion with fewer errors, the centerline of the colon's outer surface is employed in the proposed virtual eversion method instead of the inner surface centerline. A hybrid sampling method is designed to accelerate the eversion. Virtual rotation is introduced to visualize the lateral and rear views of the colon better. The gathered structures in the high curvature regions can be separated by virtual rotation.The proposed methods were validated using two three-dimensional phantoms and 87 CT data sets. A study on the observation performance of the everted data showed that the reading times were (63% of time reduction for phantom A, 65% of time reduction for phantom B, and 77% of time reduction for CT data) less than those using virtual colonoscopy, while maintaining the sensibility. The incidence of improperly everted regions in the virtual eversion based on the outer surface centerline was 71% less than that based on the inner surface centerline.The virtual eversion based on the outer surface centerline is more accurate than the one based on the inner surface centerline whether the colon's inner surface is smooth or ragged. The time required for polyp detection using the virtual eversion is considerably less than that using the conventional virtual endoscopy. Virtual eversion and virtual rotation are promising methods for the rapid location of colonic polyps. Together with virtual colonoscopy and virtual flattening, virtual eversion and virtual rotation can be integrated to produce a powerful system for diagnosing colonic lesions.