Computer aided three-dimensional reconstruction and modeling of the pelvis, by using plastinated cross sections, as a powerful tool for morphological investigations. The aim of this study was to describe a method of developing a computerized model of the human female pelvis using plastinated slices. Computerized reconstruction of anatomical structures is becoming very useful for developing anatomical teaching, research modules and animations. Although databases consisting of serial sections derived from frozen cadaver material exist, plastination represents an alternative method for developing anatomical data useful for computerized reconstruction.A slice anatomy study, using plastinated transparent pelvis cross sections, was performed to obtain a 3D reconstruction. One female human pelvis used for this study, first plastinated as a block, then sliced into thin slices and in the end subjected to 3D computerized reconstruction using WinSURF modeling system (SURFdriver Software). To facilitate the understanding of the complex pelvic floor anatomy on sectional images obtained through MR imaging, and to make the representation more vivid, a female pelvis computer-aided 3D model was created.Qualitative observations revealed that the morphological features of the model were consistent with those displayed by typical cadaveric specimens. The quality of the reconstructed images appeared distinct, especially the spatial positions and complicated relationships of contiguous structures of the female pelvis. All reconstructed structures can be displayed in groups or as a whole and interactively rotated in 3D space.The utilization of plastinates for generating tissue sections is useful for 3D computerized modeling. The 3D model of the female pelvis presented in this paper provides a stereoscopic view to study the adjacent relationship and arrangement of respective pelvis sections. A better understanding of the pelvic floor anatomy is relevant to gynaecologists, radiologists, surgeons, urologists, physical therapists and all professionals who take care of women with pelvic floor dysfunction.