Imaging of endometrial carcinoma using contrast-enhanced sonography. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the utility of contrast-enhanced sonography as an adjunct to conventional transvaginal sonography for detecting endometrial carcinoma and defining the depth of myometrial invasion.A total of 35 patients with endometrial carcinoma diagnosed by endometrial sampling were examined with transvaginal sonography followed by contrast-enhanced sonography before treatment. The contrast enhancement phases (ie, early wash-in/out and late wash-in/out) were visually observed before comparison of tumors grouped by average diameter and histopathologic grade. We evaluated the effectiveness of contrast-enhanced sonography as an adjunct to transvaginal sonography in tumor imaging. We calculated the accuracy of contrast-enhanced sonography for diagnosing the depth of tumor invasion into the myometrium by using arcuate vascular plexus involvement as the sonographic standard for diagnosis of deep myometrial infiltration.Of the 34 tumors identified by contrast-enhanced sonography, 28 (82.4%) showed early wash-in, and 6 (17.6%) showed late wash-in. Similar numbers of cases showed early and late wash-out. The enhancement phases did not differ significantly across groups with different average tumor diameters or histologic grades (P > .05). Contrast-enhanced sonography contributed the most to tumor imaging in patients with a thin endometrium after endometrial biopsy because it enhanced the contrast between the tumor and tissue. The diagnostic accuracy of contrast-enhanced sonography for determining the myometrium infiltration depth was 85.3%.This study revealed diagnostically useful characteristics of the enhancement phase of endometrial carcinoma. The ability to enhance tumor-to-tissue contrast makes contrast-enhanced sonography a valuable adjunct to conventional sonography of endometrial carcinoma, especially for the thin endometrium found after endometrial biopsy. Contrast-enhanced sonography performed well in the diagnosis of the myometrial infiltration depth when using arcuate vascular plexus involvement as a marker of deep myometrial infiltration.