Clinical value of real time 3D sonohysterography and 2D sonohysterography in comparison to hysteroscopy with subsequent histopathological examination in perimenopausal women with abnormal uterine bleeding. In many publications the transvaginal ultrasound is regarded as the first step to diagnose the cause of uterine bleeding in perimenopausal women. In order to improve the sensitivity and specificity of the conventional ultrasound physiological saline solution was administered to the uterine cavity and after expansion of its walls the interior uterine cavity was examined. And this procedure is called 2D sonohysterography (SIS 2D). By the ultrasound scanners which enable to get 3D real time image a spatial evaluation of the uterine cavity is possible. Clinical value of the real time 3D sonohysterography and 2D sonohysterography compared to hysteroscopy with histopathological examination in perimenopausal women.The study concerned a group of 97 perimenopausal women with abnormal uterine bleeding. In all of them after a standard transvaginal ultrasonography a catheter was inserted into the uterine cavity. After expansion of the uterine walls by administering about 10 ml of 0,9% saline solution the uterine cavity was examined by conventional sonohysterography. Then a 3D imaging mode was activated and the uterine interior was examined by real time 3D ultrasonography. The ultrasound results were verified by hysteroscopy, the endometrial lesions were removed and underwent a histopathological examination.In two cases the SIS examination was impossible because of uterine cervix atresion. In the rest of examined group the SIS 2D sensitivity and specificity came up to 72 and 96% respectively. In the group of SIS 3D the sensitivity and specificity reached 83 and 99% respectively.Adding SIS 3D, a minimally invasive method, to conventional sonohysterography improves the precision of diagnosis of endometrial pathology, allows to get three-dimensional image of the uterine cavity and enables examination of endometrial lesions. The diagnostic precision of this procedure is similar to the results achieved by hysteroscopy.