The ultrasound frequency determines the degree of intrinsic coagulation activation. Diagnostic ultrasound activates intrinsic coagulation. The aim of the present work was to quantify the action of different ultrasound frequencies on the contact phase of human blood coagulation. Pooled normal citrated platelet-poor plasma in 2 ml aliquots in polypropylene monovettes was exposed to diagnostic ultrasound, changing the ultrasound frequency from 17 to 15 to 12 to 8 to 7 MHz (at an intensity of 1.1 MI). After 0-2 min (23°C), 400 μl samples were withdrawn and placed into polypropylene Eppendorf cups. Forty microliters of plasma sample was pipetted into U-wells polystyrene microtiter plates of high purity (Brand781600). Immediately thereafter, the recalcified coagulation activity assay (RECA) was performed. Seventeen megahertz ultrasound exposure was the weakest activator of intrinsic coagulation of all frequencies tested: even 2 min of exposure at 23°C enhanced F2a generation by only about three-fold. The shorter the ultrasound exposure, the better the action against intrinsic hemostasis: 0.5 min of ultrasound exposure at 23°C induced less than two-fold thrombin generation in all frequencies tested. One minute ultrasound exposure (23°C) triggered intrinsic coagulation strongest at 8 MHz, showing an approximately four-fold increase in F2a generation. A 1.5 min of ultrasound exposure (23°C) triggered coagulation strongest at 7 MHz, showing an approximately 14-fold increase in F2a generation. Two minute of ultrasound exposure (23°C) triggered coagulation strongest at 15 MHz, showing an approximately 18-fold increase in F2a generation. Ultrasound has to be considered as a potential inducer of pathologic systemic coagulation. Patients at risk for increased coagulation activation and/or liver insufficiency should be protected with low molecular weight heparin, if a prolonged ultrasound diagnostic is planned. Ultrasound frequencies of about 17 MHz are the weakest activators of intrinsic coagulation. Ultrasound frequencies of about 7 MHz might be used for therapeutic induction of coagulation activation, such as in patients with severe cerebral or hepatic hemorrhages.