Poly(ethylene glycol)-block-poly(ε-caprolactone) micelles for combination drug delivery: evaluation of paclitaxel, cyclopamine and gossypol in intraperitoneal xenograft models of ovarian cancer. Ovarian cancer is the most lethal gynecological malignancy, characterized by a high rate of chemoresistance. Current treatment strategies for ovarian cancer focus on novel drug combinations of cytotoxic agents and molecular targeted agents or novel drug delivery strategies that often involve intraperitoneal (IP) injection. Poly(ethylene glycol)-block-poly(ε-caprolactone) (PEG-b-PCL) micelles were loaded with paclitaxel (cytotoxic agent), cyclopamine (hedgehog inhibitor), and gossypol (Bcl-2 inhibitor). After physicochemical studies focusing on combination drug solubilization, 3-drug PEG-b-PCL micelles were evaluated in vitro in 2-D and 3-D cell culture and in vivo in xenograft models of ovarian cancer, tracking bioluminescence signals from ES-2 and SKOV3 human ovarian cancer cell lines after IP injection. 3-Drug PEG-b-PCL micelles were not significantly more potent in 2-D cell culture in comparison to paclitaxel however, they disaggregated ES-2 tumor spheroids, whereas single drugs or 2-drug combinations only slowed growth of ES-2 tumor spheroids or had no noticeable effects. In ES-2 and SKOV3 xenograft models, 3-drug PEG-b-PCL micelles had significantly less tumor burden than paclitaxel based on bioluminescence imaging, 3'-deoxy-3'-(18)F-fluorothymidine ((18)F-FLT) PET imaging, and overall survival. (18)F-FLT-PET images clearly showed that 3-drug PEG-b-PCL micelles dramatically reduce tumor volumes over paclitaxel and vehicle controls. In summary, PEG-b-PCL micelles enable the IP combination drug delivery of paclitaxel, cyclopamine and gossypol, resulting in tumor growth inhibition and prolonged survival over paclitaxel alone. These results validate a novel treatment strategy for ovarian cancer based on drug combinations of cytotoxic agents and molecular targeted agents, delivered concurrently by a nanoscale drug delivery system, e.g. PEG-b-PCL micelles.