Metastatic involvement of the spleen by endometrial adenocarcioma a rare asylum for a common malignancy: a case report. Metastatic involvement of the spleen by solid tumors is a rare clinical entity those coming from endometrial adenocarcinomas are exceptionally rare. Spleen is an uncommon site for metastatic deposits due to its specific anatomy and microenvironment. Typically, splenic metastasis from endometrial carcinomas present months to years after curative surgery, chemotherapy or radiotherapy. The most common complaint in symptomatic patients is abdominal pain localized to the left hypochondrium. Most however, are asymptomatic only to be picked up on vigilant routine ultrasonography or computerized tomography during follow up. We report the case of a 54-year-old woman who presented to us after 50 months of total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy for an endometrial adenocarcinoma. She had severe abdominal pain localized to the left hypochondrium as the presenting complaint. To the best of our knowledge, this is the 1st case to be reported from Pakistan with 14 cases reported prior to our report. All past cases report the endometroid variant of endometrial adenocarcinoma as the primary tumor and our patient was a victim to the same variant.A 54-year-old, nulliparous widowed woman presented with severe abdominal pain in the left hypochondrium for the last 4 months. The pain radiated to the left shoulder and was exacerbated with deep breathing. She had a history of total abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy done 50 months back for stage 1a endometroid endometrial adenocarcinoma. Clinical examination revealed tenderness in the left hypochondrium but no visceromeglay was appreciable. Ultrasonography and computerized tomography revealed a space-occupying lesion within the spleen with associated splenomegaly. Computed tomography further suggested a large splenic abscess however the patient did not have fever, vomiting or leukocytosis which are the hallmarks of a splenic abscess. A splenectomy was performed for her complaints. On histopathology a metastatic adenocarcinoma was identified consistent with the primary tumor. The tumor was CK7, CA-125 and epithelial membrane antigen positive (EMA). The patient was then referred for further chemotherapy.From this case we conclude, that although very rare, the spleen is a potential site for metastasis in endometroid endometrial adenocarcinoma. Since most patients are asymptomatic, routine examinations and imaging can identify its presence and avoid complications. If the practice is employed with vigilance, we may expect the clinical event to be diagnosed more frequently. The standard treatment is a classic splenectomy followed by chemotherapy.