Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in elderly patients. the presentation of common bile duct disease, value of investigations and treatment outcome in elderly patients undergoing endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) were assessed.the clinical presentation, liver function tests, full blood counts, abdominal ultrasound and ERCP results were assessed retrospectively in 101 patients (59 women, 42 men mean age 83 years, range 75-100) sequentially investigated for possible common bile duct disease.59 patients had common bile duct gallstones, 35 had malignant biliary obstruction (13 with co-existing common bile duct stones) and seven had other outcomes. In the malignant-alone group 68% of those who had jaundice presented painlessly compared with 24% in the gallstones-alone group 49% of the gallstones-alone group had pain compared with 28% of the malignant group. In the gallstones-alone group 43% had atypical presentations (non-specific symptoms or painless jaundice). Non-specific symptoms were found in 19% of the gallstones-alone group but in only 5% of the malignant group. Of the patients who had common bile duct stones, 18% had pancreatic or biliary malignancy. The co-existence of gallstones and malignancy was emphasized by eight patients in whom the clinical and ultrasound diagnosis was of common bile duct stones but malignancy was detected by ERCP. The sensitivity of ultrasound was 86% for detecting dilated common bile ducts was 86%, but only 69% for diagnosing gallstones within the common bile duct and 67% for diagnosing pancreatic masses. Ultrasound and ERCP were in agreement in 60 patients (60%). Endoscopic clearance of common bile duct gallstones was successful in 53 of 54 attempts (98%). Palliative ERCP treatment was performed in 30 patients who had malignant biliary obstruction and was successful in 22 (73%)in elderly patients, common bile duct stones often present atypically and co-existence with malignancy is not unusual ampullary carcinoma has a relatively good prognosis and ERCP is a safe and effective procedure in the management of biliary obstruction.