A case of long-term survival of 3-years 4 months after combination chemotherapy of MTX, 5-FU and low-dose CDDP (MFP) for type 4 gastric cancer with pleuritis, peritoneal dissemination and Krukenberg tumor. A 41-year-old woman presented to the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of our hospital because of abdominal distension and irregular genital bleeding. Computed tomography and ultrasonography of the abdomen revealed bilateral ovarian tumors, massive ascites, and bilateral pleural effusion. Type IV advanced gastric cancer was diagnosed on upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. The patient was admitted to our department. She received 3 courses of combination chemotherapy with methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil, and low-dose cisplatin. Pleural effusion and ascites disappeared. Surgery (total gastrectomy, resection of the tail of the pancreas, lymph-node dissection, total hysterectomy, and adnexectomy) was performed, and the patient was discharged. Chemotherapy was repeated after surgery. Lymph-node metastasis recurred 1 year 8 months after the start of chemotherapy. Treatment was switched to irinotecan plus cisplatin, and the lymph nodes shrank. After 9 months, 3 courses of TS-1 were administered. Two years 10 months after starting chemotherapy, abdominal and low back pain developed. Bone scintigraphy revealed bone metastasis. Lymph node swelling was present. The patient responded to radiotherapy with chemotherapy (cisplatin plus 5-fluorouracil). Subsequently, abdominal computed tomography showed lymph-node swelling, multiple metastases to the liver, ascites, and a right pleural effusion. She was readmitted to the hospital and received intraperitoneal chemotherapy with cisplatin. Her condition deteriorated, and she died. The patient survived for about 3 years 4 months after the start of treatment. Chemotherapy with methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil, and low-dose cisplatin may thus be an effective therapeutic option in patients who have advanced gastric cancer with peritoneal dissemination.