Cephalic duodenopancreatectomy at the Hopital du Point G, Bamako. to bring back the clinical and therapeutic aspects of 6 cases of DPC in the service of surgery A of the hospital of the POINT G.descriptive retrospective study of 5 years and 6 months in the service. All the patients presenting a duodéno-pancreatic malignant tumour treated by DPC with histological diagnostic confirmation were included in the study. The palliative techniques of biliary and digestive derivations were not retained.6 files of patients were collected. The average age of the patients was 63 years. The average time of consultation was 8 months. The abdominal pains, the jaundice and the cutaneous prurit were the reasons for consultation of first order. The functional signs were the cutaneous prurit and vomiting, the faded saddles (2 cases, 33.3%), and the dark urines (a case, 16,7% of the cases). The seat of pain was epigastric among 3 patients (50%), diffuse with epigastric starting point in a case, pain of the right hypochondre in one case. An epigastric mass was palpated by 4 patients (66,6%). A hepatomegaly and a large blister were palpated once (16,7% of the cases). High blood amylase rates are noted by 4 patients (66,7%). The rates of bilirubine free and total in blood were very high. The echographic image was that of a mass of the head of the pancreas and a dilation of the bile ducts will intra and extrahepatic as well as channel of Wirsung (4 cases, 66.7%). The computer tomodensitometry did not objectify local vascular invasion, hepatic metastases, or of ascite. The tomodensitometric images of the lesions were a cystic tumour of the head of the pancreas (one case), a pancreatic tumour + cholestase (one case), a tumour of the head of the pancreas with compression of duodenum (4 cases). Classes ASA II (4, 66.7%) and III (2, 33.3%) were only represented. The procedures of resection were practised according to the technique of WHIPPLE or its alternatives. The ganglionic clearing out related to the 5 classical chains. The early continuations were simple for 4 patients (66,6%). A case of parietal suppuration, a pancreatic leak (operated again at J3) and a death were recorded. The average duration of the hospital stay was 16 days. Two patients died between 0 and 3 months into postoperative, and 2 others died between the 3rd month (33,33%) and the 10th month (33,3%). The results of the histological examination were 4 cases of adenocarcinomists of the pancreas (66,6%), a adenocarcinomist inflammatory and necrotic, a fairly differentiated adenocarcinomist.the tumours of the head of the pancreas very often diagnosed at a late stage are of weak frequency in our context of exercise. The DPC is burdened with a made morbidity of pancréato-jejunal dents. The rate of survival at 5 years remains around 5%.