Split-bolus spectral multidetector CT of the pancreas: assessment of radiation dose and tumor conspicuity. To assess tumor conspicuity and radiation dose with a new multidetector computed tomography (CT) protocol for pancreatic imaging that combines spectral CT and split-bolus injection.This study was approved by the institutional review board and compliant with HIPAA. The requirement for informed consent was waived. One hundred sixty-three consecutive patients referred for possible pancreatic mass underwent CT with either a standard or split-bolus spectral CT protocol depending on scanner availability. Split-bolus spectral CT (CT unit with spectral imaging) combines pancreatic and portal venous phases in a single scan: 70 seconds before CT, 100 mL of contrast material is injected for the portal venous phase followed approximately 35 seconds later by injection of 40 mL of contrast material to boost the pancreatic phase. Bolus tracking after the second bolus initiates scanning 15 seconds after aorta enhancement reaches 280 HU. Images were reconstructed at 60 and 77 keV. The standard protocol (64-detector row unit) included unenhanced and pancreatic and portal venous phase imaging, with a single contrast material injection timed with bolus tracking 15 seconds after aortic enhancement of 300 HU for the pancreatic phase and 32 seconds later for the portal venous phase. Tumor conspicuity (difference in attenuation between tumor and pancreatic parenchyma) and contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) were determined. Attenuation of aorta, main portal vein, and liver were measured. Patient size and per-examination radiation dose were recorded. The heteroscedastic t test, Fisher exact test, and Mann-Whitney test were used for statistical analysis.There were no significant differences in age, weight, and body mass index between patients in the standard CT (46 of 80 patients had lesions) and split-bolus spectral CT (39 of 83 patients had lesions) groups however, there were significantly more women in the split-bolus group (P = .02). Tumor conspicuity and CNR were higher with the 60-keV split-bolus protocol (89.1 HU ± 56.6 and 8.8 ± 6.2, respectively) than with the pancreatic or portal venous phase of the standard protocol (43.5 HU ± 28.4 and 4.5 ± 3.0, and 51.5 HU ± 30.3 and 5.6 ± 4.0, respectivelySplit-bolus spectral multidetector CT resulted in vascular, liver, and pancreatic attenuation and tumor conspicuity equal to or greater than that with multiphase CT, with a 43% reduction in radiation dose.