Non-hyperfunctioning neuroendocrine tumours of the pancreas: MR imaging appearance and correlation with their biological behaviour. To describe MR imaging features of non-hyperfunctioning neuroendocrine pancreatic tumours by comparing them to histopathology and to determine the accuracy of MR imaging in predicting biological behaviour.After institutional review board approval, we retrospectively reviewed 45 patients with pathologically proven NF-NET of the pancreas and ≥1 preoperative MR/MRCP examinations. Of the NF-NETS, 29/45 (64.4 %) were G1 and 16/45 (35.5 %) were G2. Image analysis included the lesion maximum diameter, vascular encasement, extrapancreatic spread, signal intensity on T1- and T2-weighted, contrast enhancement features, and presence of metastases. Tumour vessel density was calculated on the histological specimen using a grid.The median maximum diameter of NF-NETs was 20 mm (range 5-200 mm). Eighty per cent of the NF-NETs were hypointense on T1-weighted images, 82.2 % were hyperintense on T2-weighted images, and 75.6 % were hypervascular. Overall MRI accuracy showed a mean AUC of 0.86 compared to pathology. Lesions with a maximum diameter of 30 mm irregular margins, absence of a cleavage plane with the main pancreatic duct, vascular encasement, extrapancreatic spread and abdominal metastases were significantly associated with malignant NF-NETs. No correlation was found between the tumour vessel density and contrast-enhanced MR imaging pattern.Hyperintensity on T2-weighted images and iso-/hypervascularity occurred in 27/45 (60.0 %) of NF-NETs. MRI identifies malignant NF-NETs with a sensitivity of 93.3 % and a specificity of 76.9 % (AUC = 0.85).• Non-hyperfunctioning neuroendocrine pancreatic tumours (NF-NET) pose a difficult diagnostic challenge. • On T2-weighted MRI, 82.2 % of neuroendocrine tumours appeared hyperintense. • MR imaging showed 0.94 sensitivity and 0.77 specificity in predicting biological behaviour. • The hyper-/isointensity during dynamic MRI did not correlate with vessel density at pathology.