Primary extragastrointestinal stromal tumour of the whole abdominal cavity, omentum, peritoneum and mesentery: a case report and review of the literature. The gastrointestinal stromal tumour is one of the common mesenchymal tumours of the gastrointestinal tract. It originates from the interstitial cells of Cajal. Gastrointestinal stromal tumours that present outside the gastrointestinal tract are called extragastrointestinal stromal tumours they share the same morphological and immunohistochemical characteristics. Here we describe an unusual case of extragastrointestinal stromal tumour that presented with gooseberry-like multiple nodules involving the whole abdominal cavity.A 65-year-old Sudanese man presented with vague abdominal pain and progressive abdominal distension for 6 months. The pain was associated with mild loss of weight despite good appetite. A physical examination revealed distended abdomen with multiple firm nodules involving his whole abdomen. The results of haematological tests were within normal range. Ultrasound of his abdomen showed multiple nodules of varying sizes in the peritoneal cavity. A computed tomography scan of his abdomen showed numerous nodules of different sizes (1 to 3 cm in diameter) filling the whole peritoneal cavity with intense peripheral enhancement. Ultrasound-guided biopsy was not informative. Upper and lower gastrointestinal endoscopies were normal. Exploration of his abdomen revealed multiple firm gooseberry-like nodules of different sizes involving the greater omentum, peritoneal cavity and the mesentery. The liver, spleen and pancreas were normal. The result of the histopathology was conclusive for gastrointestinal stromal tumour.Here we present a rare case of extragastrointestinal stromal tumour in a patient who presented with vague abdominal pain and progressive abdominal distension. A laparotomy showed gooseberry-like multiple nodules of different sizes involving his whole abdominal cavity. He underwent debulking surgery and received imatinib.