Choledochal cyst mimicking Mirizzi's syndrome: a case report. Choledochal cysts are cystic dilatations of the intra or extra-hepatic biliary tract with an incidence of 1 case per 150.000 live births. Cysts usually are diagnosed in childhood, but diagnosis can be delayed until adulthood in the 20-50% of cases. Clinical manifestations comprise abdominal pain with biliary or pancreatic features. Mirizzi's syndrome is a late and rare complication, that occurs in 1% of patients with cholelithiasis due to extrinsic compression of the common bile duct by stones impacted either in the gallbladder or in the cystic duct. Clinical symptoms include extrahepatic obstructive jaundice, ascending cholangitis, or, in the later course, cholecystocholedocal fistula. For both pathologies the Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangio Pancreatography and the Magnetic Resonance Cholangio Pancreatography should lead to the diagnosis with a sensibility and a specificity up to 100%. We report the case of a 66 year old patient admitted to the Emergency Department of our hospital for jaundice and abdominal pain, whom both the endoscopic and radiologic examination showed a Mirizzi's syndrome but surgery revealed a type I choledocal cyst.biliari intra od extraepatiche con una incidenza di un caso su 150.000 nati vivi. La diagnosi di tale condizione patologica è più frequente in età infantile, ma può essere ritardata sino all’età adulta nel 20-50% dei casi. La manifestazione clinica più comune è il dolore addominale, con caratteristiche sintomatologiche ascrivibili a patologie biliari o pancreatiche. La sindrome di Mirizzi (SM) è una rara complicanza della inveterata litiasi della colecisti, ricorrendo in circa l’1% dei pazienti con colelitiasi e dovuta alla compressione ab estrinseco del dotto epatico comune da parte di calcolo/i contenuto/i all’interno della colecisti o del dotto cistico. I sintomi clinici includono ittero ostruttivo, colangiti ascendenti o, nelle fasi avanzate, fistola colecistocoledocica. Per entrambe tali condizioni patologiche la colangiopancreatografia retrograda endoscopica e la colangio-RM rappresentano gli strumenti diagnostici di scelta, con una sensitività ed una specificità fino al 100%. Riportiamo il caso di un paziente di 66 anni ricoverato presso il dipartimento di emergenza ed accettazione del nostro ospedale per dolore addominale ed ittero, in cui sia l’esame endoscopico che quello radiologico posero diagnosi di SM, ma i cui reperti intraoperatori mostrarono una cisti del coledoco di tipo I.