A preceding exchange with polyglucose versus glucose solution modifies peritoneal equilibration test results. The peritoneal equilibration test (PET) is an important tool for evaluating peritoneal membrane characteristics. The polyglucose icodextrin induces ultrafiltration caused by colloid osmosis through the small pores of the peritoneal membrane and therefore is especially effective during long dwell times. The main indications for polyglucose solutions are daytime dwells in patients on automated peritoneal dialysis and nighttime exchanges in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients. In CAPD patients, PET is started immediately after the icodextrin exchange. Therefore, we performed two PETs in each of 15 CAPD patients. PET post-1.36% glucose was performed immediately after a preceding exchange with 2 L of 1.36% glucose dialysate solution (dwell time, 10 hours). PET postpolyglucose was started immediately after a preceding exchange with 2 L of 7.5% icodextrin solution (dwell time, 10 hours). The dialysate to plasma (D/P) ratio of creatinine, phosphate, and sodium during PET postpolyglucose was significantly greater than during PET post-1.36% glucose at 1, 2, 3, and 4 hours of dwell time. The quotient of dialysate glucose at 1, 2, and 4 hours of dwell time to dialysate glucose at 0 dwell time was significantly lower in PET postpolyglucose compared with PET post-1.36% glucose. In the case of creatinine, phosphate, and glucose, PET postpolyglucose curves tended to be steeper than those of PET post-1.36% glucose during the first hour of dwell time, whereas both curves were parallel between 1 and 4 hours of dwell time. The course of D/P ratio curves of urea nitrogen, protein, and albumin was nearly identical between PET postpolyglucose and PET post-1.36% glucose. In a subgroup of 5 patients, D/P ratios of creatinine and phosphate were also greater in PET postpolyglucose compared with PET performed after a long dwell with 2.27% glucose solution. Before a scheduled PET, CAPD patients using icodextrin solution during the nighttime should perform their nighttime exchange with conventional glucose solution.