Accuracy of whole-body 18F-FDP-PET for restaging malignant lymphoma. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the accuracy of fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18F-FDG-PET) images, which were interpreted under daily routine conditions, in patients with Hodgkin's disease (HD) or non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) for restaging after chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy. For this purpose, 18F-FDG-PET results were compared with morphological imaging methods and the patients' clinical background.121 PET images of 93 lymphoma patients (44 HD, 49 NHL) were investigated after chemotherapy/radiotherapy. For PET imaging, 160-200 MBq 18F-FDG was administered intravenously, followed by an infusion of 20 mg Furosemid in 250 mL saline. Whole-body 18F-FDG-PET images were obtained using a partial-ring PET scanner without attenuation correction. The morphological imaging consisted in computed tomography and ultrasound (CT/US) in all patients, additional MRI in some patients, and iliac crest biopsy in cases of suspicious bone marrow involvement. The standard of reference was composed of biopsy data, clinical status at the time of investigation, and follow-up of at least 12 months. The PET images were evaluated for their sensitivity, specificity and accuracy based on written reports, which were compiled from other imaging data and the clinical history of the patients.Sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 18F-FDG-PET was 91 %, 81 %, and 85 % of CT/US, 88 %, 35 %, 56 %, respectively. Major sources of error in 18F-FDG-PET were due to asymmetric muscular hypermetabolism and inflammatory lesions misinterpreted as persistent viable lymphoma tissue. Furthermore, secondary malignancies other than lymphomas were another reason for misinterpretations of 18F-FDG-PET studies.18F-FDG-PET showed a comparable sensitivity but a higher specificity and accuracy compared with CT/US. To achieve a high accuracy in 18F-FDG-PET, the nuclear medicine specialist needs imaging and clinical data as background information, which can only be acquired through close co-operation with the referring clinicians. Pharmacological muscular relaxation in the course of 18F-FDG-PET imaging may be advisable, as nonspecific muscular hypermetabolism was one of the problems at the image readings and a source of incorrect 18F-FDG-PET interpretations.