PET correlates of normal and impaired memory functions. To date, positron emission tomography (PET) has been the only technology for the quantitative imaging of the changes of regional cerebral glucose (rCMRGl) or oxygen metabolism and blood flow (rCBF) associated with psychophysical stimulation and with the performance of mental tasks. So far, the majority of studies performed in healthy subjects demonstrated activation patterns involving not only certain limbic structures, most of all hippocampus, amygdala, parahippocampus, and cingulate, but also temporal, parietal, and occipital association cortex, depending on the applied paradigm. Indeed, the closest correlation between regional metabolism and memory test scores was found in mesiotemporal structures during the performance of memory tasks. Metabolic or CBF studies also seem to indicate that memorizing strategies may differ among individuals. PET was repeatedly used to investigate metabolic and/or blood flow abnormalities in patients with various amnestic syndromes. In cases with uni- or bilateral lesions of mesiotemporal structures, caused by surgery, herpes simplex encephalitis, or permanent ischemic, anoxic, or toxic damage, disturbances of metabolism and blood flow typically extended far beyond the morphological defects detected by computed tomography or magnetic resonance. In acute transient global amnesia, CBF and metabolism were decreased bilaterally in the mesiotemporal lobes, where hypometabolism persisted for some time, while higher values were observed in thalamus and some cortical areas. Diencephalic lesions causing Korsakoff's syndrome were associated with decreased rCMRGl in the hippocampal formation, upper brainstem, cingulate, and thalamus. Discrete thalamic infarcts caused amnesia and metabolic depression in the morphologically intact ipsilateral thalamus and in various projection areas of the infarcted nuclei. In ischemic forebrain lesions, amnestic deficits could be related to involvement of the anterior cingulate and of basal cholinergic nuclei. A large number of pathologies are diffusely spread out in the brain and affect partially or predominantly structures in memory processing. This holds true especially in the various dementias where memory disturbances are a consistent and often leading feature. Notably, Alzheimer's disease can be distinguished from other dementias by its characteristic pattern of metabolic dysfunction, with the most prominent changes occurring in parietotemporal and frontal association cortex whose residual metabolism is related to the severity of the disease. Therefore, activation studies using paradigms involving memory functions enhance that typical pattern. Only in the activated state is metabolism of mesiotemporal structures significantly correlated with the performance in memory tests. Other dementias also affect some of the distributed memory networks, with Huntington's disease suggesting a role of the striatum in memory processing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)