Quantitative assessment of regional alveolar ventilation and gas volume using 13N-N2 washout and PET. Measurement of alveolar volume (Va) and regional ventilation (a) is crucial to understanding the pathophysiology of acute lung injury and ventilator-induced lung injury. PET has previously been used as a noninvasive, quantitative method to assess a, but formal validation of this technique in experimental lung injury is lacking. This study aims to validate Va and a regional assessment with PET, using inhaled (13)N-N(2) in pigs.Two normal and 2 oleic acid-injured pigs were tracheotomized, mechanically ventilated, and studied in 5 different levels of ventilation by changing respiratory rate. In each experimental condition, lungs were washed-in and then washed-out with (13)N-N(2) through an open circuit in the ventilator. Using this method, multiframe images were acquired with a dedicated PET camera. Regions of interest (ROIs) were drawn on each lung. Regional time-activity curves during washout were generated for each ROI and fitted to a mono- and a bicompartmental model. Validation of this method was performed in 2 ways. First, regional values of predicted Va (Va(emission)) were compared with regional volume obtained independently from density analysis on a transmission scan (Va(trans)). Second, regional values of predicted a were summed in each animal during each experimental condition and compared with minute-ventilation values set on the ventilator.The bicompartmental model best fitted the experimental values in normal (94.7% [62.2%-100.0%] (median [interquartile range]) of the ROIs) as well as in injured animals (90.7% [81.6%-97.4%] of the ROIs) (P = 0.49). Va(emission) significantly correlated with Va(trans) (R(2) = 0.89, P < 0.001) but exceeded Va(trans) by 10%. Finally, a strongly and positively correlated with minute-ventilation in both normal (R(2) = 0.96, P < 0.001) and injured (R(2) = 0.96, P < 0.001) animals.Measurement of (13)N-N(2) washout using PET is accurate to assess regional alveolar volume and ventilation during experimental acute lung injury.