Dilated cardiomyopathy as clinical syndrome: experience with nosological diagnostics with biopsy and treatment approaches. To study possibility of nosological diagnosis in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCMP) with use of myocardial biopsy.The trial enrolled 62 patients (23 females) with DCMP syndrome (end diastolic left ventricular size > 5.5 cm, ejection fraction < 55%). Mean age of the patients was 46.0 +/- 12.8 years. The examination included diagnosis of viral infections (Herpes virus, parvovirus B19), measurement of anticardial antibodies titer, 99Tc-MIBI single photon emission computed tomography of the myocardium, multislice computed tomography, MRT of the heart, coronarography, morphological study of the myocardium (n=20) with application of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for H.simplex viruses of types 1, 2 and 6, herpes zoster, Epstein-Barr, cytomegalovirus, parvovirus B-19, adenoviruses. The control group (20 operated patients with valvular heart disease and coronary heart disease) was examined for viral genome in the blood and myocardium.Complex examination of DCMP patients showed the following distribution by nosological entuities: myocarditis (n=41, 66.1%) including virus-positive (n=14), primary DCMP (n=16, 25.9%) including with non-compact myocarditis (NCM) in 3, with debute at delivery of the child--in 3. Arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia combined with viral myocarditis (n=2), genetic myopathy (n=1) and Takayasu disease (n=1) combined with NCM, isolated NCM (n=1) were diagnosed in the rest cases. Morphological investigation of the myocardium was made in 20 patients: diagnosis of myocarditis and primary DCMP were made in 70% (including in 2 patients with CHD) and 20%. Detection of viral genome was 20 and 15% in the study and control group, respectively, in the myocardium--in 57.9 (test for parvovirus B19 was not made in 26%) and 65.0% (complete diagnosis). All the virus-positive patients with DCMP were diagnosed to have signs of active/borderline myocarditis. Diagnostic criteria and poor prognosis factors were defined.The nosological diagnosis of DCMP was made in all the examinees basing on the complex of clinical, case history and device evidence. The diagnosis was morphologically verified in 33.9% patients. Treatment approaches are developed.