The influence exerted by cutaneous ligands in subjects reacting to nickel sulfate alone and in those reacting to more transition metals. To study the influence exerted by cutaneous ligands in nickel reactions we have evaluated the patch tests responses to 4 aqueous nickel salts (sulfate, chloride, nitrate, acetate) able to form different complexes with different geometry. Two groups of respectively 71 subjects who previously reacted only to nickel sulfate 5% petrolatum (pet) and of 30 subjects who previously reacted to nickel sulfate 5% pet and to at least 1 other transition metal, were simultaneously repatch-tested to 200 microg of Ni++ contained in nickel sulfate in pet and to 47 microg of Ni++ contained in 4 different aqueous nickel salts. Another 2 groups of 25 subjects with the same characteristics were simultaneously repatch tested to 200 microg of Ni++ in pet and to 12 microg of aq Ni++ as in the first 2 groups. Visual score, total score, and mean value of the reactions were utilized in evaluating the degree of the responses. On testing to 200 microg of Ni++ in pet all the subjects were able to give positive responses. Whilst a higher percentage of the responses of 2+ degrees was found in subjects reacting to nickel sulfate 5% pet alone, a higher percentage of responses of 3+ degrees was observed in subjects reacting to more transition metals. On testing to 47 and 12 microg of aqueous Ni++ a large variability of responses to the single salts was observed in all the subjects. However, in subjects reacting to more metals there were either a greater number of multiple responses to 3 or 4 salts or responses stronger than those found in subjects reacting to nickel sulfate alone. Although patch testing cannot give us complete information about the degree of previous exposure, the results arising from the tests seem to demonstrate that the subjects allergic to nickel and other transition metals are more reactive than the subjects allergic only to nickel to the application of the same amounts of Ni++ contained in different salts. When considering the QSAR model, the difference in the sensitizing potential of the metal at the same penetration properties can depend on the possibility of combining with specific ligands. Therefore, it is likely that in subjects reacting to more metals there is a more uniform availability of cutaneous ligands which conditions the formation of complexes more immunogenic. The arising inflammatory reaction in these cases leads to a stronger but less specific response.