Benign pancreatic tumor treated with duodenum-preserving resection of the head of the pancreas. Case report. Cystic neoplasms of the pancreas constitute about 9% of all cystic lesions of the pancreas and less than 1% of all pancreatic neoplasms. Authors report the case of a 70 year-old woman with microcystic cystadenoma. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen diagnosed a 5 cm multilocular septated cyst, with calcifications in the context, localized in the head-uncinate process of the pancreas. The mass was well separated by a sharp cleavage plane with portal vein and superior mesenteric vessels. An endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) showed cephalic symmetrical stenosis (diameter: 3 mm) of the main pancreatic duct (MPD), mildly dilated in the remaining tract (diameter: 6 mm). An intra-operative biopsy of the cystic wall had been performed. Therefore, it was decided to proceed with a duodenum-preserving resection of the head of the pancreas (DPPHR), including stenosis tract of the MPD in the surgical specimen. The reconstructive procedure consisted, by i.v. jejunal loop transposition, of a side-to-side pancreatico-jejunostomy, including in the anastomosis both corpocaudal stump and the resection cavity of the pancreatic head, and an end-to-side Roux-en-Y jejuno-jejunostomy. With respect to long-lasting pain relief and preservation of the endocrine and exocrine functions of the pancreas, duodenum-preserving resection of the head of the pancreas is a highly effective surgical procedure with low early and late morbidity and mortality due to limited surgical resections. This technique, introduced into surgical practice in 1972 by Beger, is indicated in patients with chronic pancreatitis with an inflammatory mass in the head of the pancreas. The authors conclude that this procedure can also be performed in cases of pancreatic benign tumors, such as microcystic cystadenoma. Advantages of this technique make DPPHR an attractive alternative to pylorus-preserving pancreatico-duodenectomy (PPPD).