Spiral computed tomography assessment of resectability of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma: analysis of results. Despite more recent technical advances, single detector spiral computed tomography is still the most widely used imaging technique for the detection and staging of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Many reports have recently focused on single detector spiral computed tomography imaging findings indicative of unresectabilityTo evaluate the ability of single detector spiral computed tomography in the pre-operative staging of ductal adenocarcinoma of the pancreas in selecting surgically resectable versus unresectable cases, considering different parameters (vascular and local infiltration, liver metastases, lymphadenopathy, and peritoneal carcinomatosis).A total of 100 patients diagnosed with ductal adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, pathologically verified, and examined with single detector spiral computed tomography were considered. Of these, 63 underwent surgery 37 were excluded (imaging evidence of unresectability in biopsy-proven adenocarcinomas). Single detector spiral computed tomography studies, performed at the time of surgery, were retrospectively reviewed by two radiologists. The final results were reached by consensus, without being aware of the operation. All prospective clinical readings were also considered, and tabulated.In the patients undergoing surgery, 44 proved to be unresectable and 19 resectable. Considering the above-mentioned parameters, the prospective assessment of resectability demonstrated a rather low sensitivity (68%), with high specificity (95%). Accordingly, a high positive predictive value (97%) was achieved, while the negative predictive value was 56%. After the retrospective evaluation, the value of sensitivity increased (84%) to the expense of the specificity (84%). Moreover, a positive predictive value of 92.5%, and a negative predictive value of 69.5% were obtained.The demonstration of many signs of unresectability of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma reported in the literature yields a better sensitivity in the diagnosis, but unfortunately, is associated with an inevitable reduction in specificity.