Assessment of pancreatic malignancy with laparoscopy and intraoperative ultrasound. Staging laparoscopy for pancreatic malignancy is controversial. This study aimed to assess the efficacy of laparoscopy with intraoperative ultrasound in the management of patients with pancreatic carcinoma.The study involved patients undergoing laparoscopy and intraoperative ultrasound over a period of 42 months. The entry criteria specified radiologic (computed tomography) diagnosis of pancreatic carcinoma and no evidence of metastases.The study enrolled 100 patients (52 men and 48 women) ages 21 to 83 years (mean, 63 years). On the basis of imaging, 75 patients had lesions judged to be operable, and 25 patients had a pancreatic head lesion larger than 4 cm radiologically, considered to be unresectable, but with no evidence of metastatic disease. At laparoscopy, three patients had a normal examination, with no evidence of a pancreatic mass, and an additional seven patients had other pathology including one lymphoma, one ampullary tumor, two cases of chronic pancreatitis, and three sarcomas. Of the patients with radiologically inoperable disease, 16% had previously undetected metastases, but 24% were judged to be suitable for curative resection. Half of these patients underwent successful resection. Of the patients with radiologically operable disease, undetected liver or peritoneal metastases were found in 20% of the body or tail lesions and in 26% of the pancreatic head lesions. Of the pancreatic head tumors, 12% were found to be larger than 4 cm and therefore unsuitable for curative resection. Consequently, only 53% were confirmed to be suitable for resection. Of the patients explored with a view to curative resection, 42% actually underwent resection, with clearance of resection margins achieved in 77.8%.Of the patients thought to have a resectable tumor on the basis of good quality preoperative imaging, 44% had their management approach altered after laparoscopy and avoided an open procedure. Laparoscopy should therefore be used in the preoperative staging of pancreatic tumors.