Autoimmune pancreatitis: pancreatic and extrapancreatic MR imaging-MR cholangiopancreatography findings at diagnosis, after steroid therapy, and at recurrence. To determine and describe the magnetic resonance (MR) imaging-MR cholangiopancreatographic pancreatic and extrapancreatic findings of autoimmune pancreatitis (AIP) and the probability, site, and MR features of recurrent AIP after steroid therapy.This retrospective study was approved by the institutional review board, and the requirement for informed patient consent was waived. The data of 27 patients with AIP were included in the study. All patients had undergone MR imaging with MR cholangiopancreatography before and after steroid treatment and during follow-up (median follow-up period, 45 months). Image analysis included assessment of pancreatic parenchyma enlargement, signal intensity on T1- and T2-weighted MR images, contrast enhancement, and presence of bile duct and/or renal involvement. The probability of AIP recurrence was assessed by using Kaplan-Meier curves and the unadjusted Cox model.At the time of diagnosis, the AIP-affected pancreatic parenchyma showed diffuse enlargement in 14 (52%) of the 27 patients and segmental enlargement in 13 (48%). The pancreatic parenchyma appeared hypointense on T1-weighted images in all 27 (100%) patients, hyperintense on T2-weighted images in 25 (93%), and isointense in two (7%). During the pancreatic phase of the dynamic contrast material-enhanced study, the affected pancreatic parenchyma appeared hypointense in 25 (93%) patients and isointense in two (7%). During the portal venous and delayed phases, the images of 19 (70%) patients showed delayed enhancement. Bile duct involvement was observed in 10 (37%) patients, and renal involvement was observed in two (7%). After steroid treatment, six (22%) patients had recurrent AIP, with a median disease-free interval of 20.6 months. The sites of recurrence were the pancreas and the kidneys in three of the six patients, solely the pancreas in two patients, and the biliary ducts in one patient.MR imaging with MR cholangiopancreatography enables the diagnosis of pancreatic and extrapancreatic AIP and the assessment of changes after steroid therapy.