Rupture of splenic artery pseudoaneurysm: an unusual cause of upper gastrointetinal bleeding. Bleeding from a pancreatic pseudocyst is a severe complication after pancreatitis that can lead to a massive gastrointestinal blood loss. Pseudocyst rupture into the stomach is an unusual complication.We report the case of a 34-year-old woman with a history of alcoholism and a pancreatic pseudocyst. One year after follow-up of her pseudocyst, she arrived at the emergency room with an episode of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. An upper digestive endoscopy showed active bleeding in the subcardial fundus, which could not be endoscopically controlled. Abdominal angio-CT confirmed the diagnosis of a splenic artery pseudoaneurysm in close contact with the back wall of the stomach, as well as a likely fistulization of it. The patient was urgently operated and a distal splenopancreatectomy and fistulorrhaphy was performed.The rupture of a splenic artery pseudoaneurysm may rarely present as upper gastrointestinal bleeding. This may be lethal if not urgently treated.Antecedentes: tras una pancreatitis, el sangrado de un pseudoquiste pancreático es una complicación grave que puede conducir a una hemorragia digestiva masiva. La ruptura de ese pseudoquiste en el estómago es rara. Caso clínico: se comunica el caso de una paciente femenina de 34 años de edad, con antecedentes de alcoholismo y un pseudoquiste pancreático. Después de abandonar el estudio y seguimiento del pseudoquiste pancreático un año más tarde reingresó de urgencia debido a un cuadro de hemorragia digestiva alta. En una endoscopia del tubo digestivo alto se encontró sangrado activo en la región del fundus gástrico, que no pudo controlarse. La angio-tomografía axial computada abdominal confirmó el diagnóstico de pseudoaneurisma de la arteria esplénica, en íntimo contacto con la pared posterior del estómago y quizá fistulizado al mismo. La paciente se intervino con carácter urgente realizándose esplenopancreatectomía distal y fistulorrafia. Conclusión: en raras ocasiones la ruptura de un pseudoaneurisma de la arteria esplénica puede iniciarse como una hemorragia digestiva alta, que puede ser letal si no es tratada con urgencia.