Preoperative staging of pancreatic adenocarcinoma: a practice survey of French gastroenterologists and digestive surgeons. Ordering of supplemental examinations and preoperative criteria of loco-regional spread. Means used by physicians to perform preoperative staging of pancreatic adenocarcinoma are not well known. Therapeutic strategy used relies on knowledge of loco-regional spread criteria.To assess the frequency of prescription of imaging procedures in patients with suspected pancreatic head adenocarcinoma the use by French gastroenterologists (GE) and digestive surgeons (S) of criteria which lead to suspect lymph node invasion or vascular involvementAll the French GE (n = 3466) and S (n = 687) were sent a survey asking them about their habits.615 answers were received (GE = 426, S = 189). There was no significant difference between GE and S for the prescription of ultrasonography and CT scan. Endosonography and upper digestive endoscopy were more systematically performed by GE than S (44 vs 35% and 50 vs 35%, respectively). Celio-mesenteric angiography was less often used by GE (6 vs 13%). Laparoscopy was electively used by 35% GE and 52% S. None of vascular involvement criteria was used by more than 75% of GE and S. Tumor-vessel interface loss was used by 46% GE and 16% S (P < 0.001). Intravascular thrombosis and truncular portal hypertension signs were used more often by S than GE (84 vs. 71%: P < 0.001 65 vs. 51%: P < 0.001). None of nodal involvement criteria was used by more than 50% of physicians. All these nodal criteria were used more often by GE than S (P < 0.001). Percentage of physicians requiring histological confirmation in case of unresectable tumor was 41%.Preoperative staging of suspected pancreatic head adenocarcinoma is performed with grossly the same manner by GE and S. Histological proof is searched for in a low percentage of cases. Imaging criteria of loco-regional spread of pancreatic adenocarcinoma are heterogeneously used by GE and S, the former using them more frequently than the latter. A better use of imaging criteria is necessary to optimise the treatment of patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma.