Intraoperative ultrasonography by high-resolution annular array transducer for intraductal papillary mucinous tumors of the pancreas. Intraductal papillary mucinous tumors of the pancreas (IPMT) spread along the main pancreatic duct (MPD) or branch duct, or both. It is important to intraoperatively determine the extent of IPMT lesions in the MPD to perform a successful operation.This study included 27 consecutive patients with IPMT who were referred for operation and who had undergone endoscopic ultrasonography, endoscopic retrograde pancreatography, and computed tomography as a diagnostic examination. Intraoperative ultrasonography with a 7.5-MHz annular array transducer and a 7. 5-MHz conventional transducer was performed. All patients underwent operation, and the pathology was confirmed. Endoscopic ultrasonography, endoscopic retrograde pancreatography, intraoperative conventional ultrasonography, and intraoperative annular array ultrasonography results were correlated with those from a pathologic examination of the resected specimens. The diagnostic accuracy of these 4 modalities in the detection of IPMT lesions in the MPD and the branch duct was confirmed.The diagnostic criterion of IPMT lesions by intraoperative annular array ultrasonography was the presence of echogenic masses with irregular margins in the MPD or branch duct, or both. An IPMT lesion in the MPD was found in 22 of the 27 patients. Intraoperative annular array ultrasonography detected 5 cases of IPMT lesions in the MPD that could not be detected by endoscopic ultrasonography or endoscopic retrograde pancreatography. In 3 of 5 patients, pancreatic resection was extended to remove IPMT lesions. Intraoperative annular array ultrasonography detected 3 multifocal lesions that could not be detected by preoperative examinations. For the diagnosis of IPMT lesions in the MPD, the respective sensitivity, specificity, and overall accuracy of intraoperative annular array ultrasonography were 86%, 100%, and 89% the respective values were 50%, 100%, and 59% for endoscopic retrograde pancreatographyIntraoperative annular array ultrasonography is suitable for longitudinal scanning of the MPD, useful for accurate diagnosis of the extent of IPMT in the pancreas, and valuable for planning surgical strategy and successful operations for IPMT.