Patient satisfaction after MRCP and ERCP. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) is an accurate diagnostic test for detecting abnormalities of the pancreaticobiliary system. Because it is noninvasive, MRCP appears to be more tolerable than ERCP, although this has not been studied. The purpose of this study is to compare patient satisfaction after MRCP and ERCP performed sequentially.We prospectively recruited 34 patients undergoing ERCP, for whom an MRCP was able to be performed before ERCP. Patient satisfaction was assessed by validated questionnaires using seven-point Likhert scales (individual ratings and direct comparisons). The following dimensions were explored: anxiety, pain, discomfort, tolerability (relative to expectations), willingness to repeat the procedure, and overall preference. Chi2 and Student's t tests (paired and unpaired) were performed, and 95% CIs were provided.Two patients (5.9%) were unable to undergo MRCP because of claustrophobia. The remaining 32 completed both tests (94% same day) and all questionnaires. Average age was 56+/-18 yr, and 66% were women. In 23 patients, some degree of biliary obstruction was suspected nine patients had pancreatitis. Patients reported a lower degree of pain (p < 0.001) and discomfort (p = 0.047) with MRCP, but MRCP was more difficult than they expected (p = 0.0 12). Patients were marginally more willing to repeat MRCP (ns, p = 0.09). On direct comparisons, patients were more satisfied with MRCP regarding anxiety (p = 0.04) and pain (p = 0.001). Patients displayed a higher overall preference for MRCP compared with ERCP (p = 0.01)In many respects, MRCP is well tolerated, and certain subgroups, especially those undergoing diagnostic ERCPs, prefer MRCP over ERCP. As an endoscopist, one needs to be aware of the limitations of MRCP and relay these to the patient, as it seems that patients find MRCP more difficult than anticipated, and a significant number still prefer ERCP over MRCP. Patient satisfaction may be further improved by reducing noise and claustrophobia with selective premedication, earplugs, and the use of the new quieter fenestrated magnetic resonance imaging scanners.