Immunological approach in the diagnosis, therapy and prognosis of the exocrine pancreatic cancer. The aim of the paper is to outline the most important up-to-date methods regarding the immunological approach in the diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of the exocrine pancreatic cancer, keeping in mind that this localisation of neoplastic disease represents the 5th cause of cancer-related death and especially, an important cause of morbidity. This disease, diagnosed in the past in later stages, being therefore associated with poor results, has turned to be characterized by increasing survival rates due to the improvements in diagnostic and therapeutic methods. Regarding the diagnosis strategy, progress was made in imagistic sphera, aiming: 1. an early diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and, implicitly, a high resectability rate of tumor, and 2. an evaluation of the timing for palliative therapeutic methods. So that, if in the past the diagnostic algorithm meant endoscopic retrograde-cholangio-pancreatography, computed tomography and angiography, at present it means nuclear magnetic resonance and helicoidal tomography. Concerning the treatment, it has to be multidisciplinary (surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, immunotherapy), complex, because, after a resection for cure (R0), the main stay of the treatment, the mean survival at 5 years is 3%-28% and the rate of recurrences is 33%-80%. Biological therapy (sometimes called immunotherapy, biotherapy or biological response modifier therapy) is a relatively new addition to the family of cancer treatments that also includes surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Biological therapies are designed to repair, stimulate or enhance the immune system responses. We shall try to point out how the exocrine pancreatic cancers, the same stages and undergoing the same approaches, have had different responses due to a different biological behavior and how the biological response modifiers (interferons, interleukins, colony-stimulating factors, monoclonal antibodies and vaccines) can improve the results in pancreatic cancer.