Tumour characteristics predictive of survival following resection for ductal adenocarcinoma of the head of pancreas. We have maintained a highly conservative policy in selecting patients with carcinoma of the head of pancreas for resection. This has been based on tumour size, evidence of lymph node involvement or local invasion outside of the gland at laparotomy, laparoscopy or CT imaging. This study investigated our survival rates following pancreatic resection and examined clinicopathological predictors of survival.Sixty-two consecutive patients undergoing pancreatic resections for malignancy were identified from 1999 onwards. Thirty-three underwent resection for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma and were included in our analysis, the remainder included resections for ampullary adenocarcinoma (n=20) or other malignancies (n=9). Patient, tumour and operative characteristics were analysed to assess predictors of survival following resection (Kaplan-Meier survival curves).Median survival following resection for ductal pancreatic adenocarcinoma was 54 months (ampullary adenocarcinomas achieved a median survival of 62 months) and thirty-day mortality was 2.7% (n=1). Survival was not associated with any demographic or intraoperative factors, such as blood loss, operative duration or anaesthetic technique. Survival curves were significantly worse when perineural or vascular invasion was evident histologically (p=0.023 and 0.0023 respectively). Patients with positive lymph nodes had a significantly shorter survival (p=0.0030) especially when lymph node status was expressed as a percentage of total lymph node yield. If more than 20% of retrieved lymph nodes were positive for tumour, this was a clear predictor of survival (p<0.0001). A positive resection margin was also associated with shortened survival (p=0.0291).Despite the advances made in the management of pancreatic cancer, tumour biology still dictates long-term survival. A highly selective surgical approach to the management of these patients results in good long-term survival.