Differentiating pancreatic pseudocyst and pancreatic necrosis using computerized tomography. Ten per cent of patients with acute pancreatitis will develop pancreatic complications. Differentiating pancreatic pseudocyst formation from pancreatic necrosis may be difficult based on clinical grounds. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of computerized tomography in differentiating these processes. A retrospective analysis was performed of 40 patients who developed pancreatic complications following an episode of acute pancreatitis and who subsequently underwent operation for drainage of their pancreatic fluid collections. All 40 patients had abdominal CT scans performed before surgery and the patients were then categorized on the basis of CT findings as having (1) a pseudocyst with a well-defined cyst wall, (2) peripancreatic fluid marked by the absence of a cyst wall, and (3) a combination of a pseudocyst as well as free peripancreatic fluid. Patients with pseudocysts had an average hospital stay of 14 +/- 2 days, a hospital morbidity rate of 16%, and a hospital mortality rate of 0%. In contrast, patients with peripancreatic fluid collections had an average hospital stay of 43 +/- 4 days (p less than 0.01) and hospital morbidity and mortality rates of 74% (p less than 0.01) and 22% (p less than 0.05), respectively. Patients with both pseudocysts and peripancreatic fluid collections behaved in a similar fashion to patients with peripancreatic fluid alone as characterized by a prolonged hospital stay and a high incidence (80%) of postoperative complications. At one year follow-up, 89% of the patients with pseudocysts were asymptomatic, whereas only 13% (p less than 0.01) of patients with peripancreatic fluid were symptom free. These data demonstrate that pseudocyst and peripancreatic fluid collections have markedly different biologic characteristics both in their short-term and long-term behavior. The results suggest that CT scanning can differentiate these processes and may help in directing the appropriate surgical therapy.