Localization of carcinoids and pheochromocytomas with vein catheterization and amine determination. Selective catheterization of hepatic, intestinal and adrenal veins with blood sampling for serotonin and catecholamine determination was evaluated regarding its use in the diagnosis, location and characterization of carcinoids and pheochromocytomas. Catheterization of intestinal veins via the transhepatic route and of the adrenal veins via the femoral and caval veins was performed in 49 patients without major complications. High pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection was used to quantitate norepinephrine and epinephrine in plasma and serotonin in plasma and whole blood. Serotonin in plasma was also determined by an enzymatic procedure. In 30 patients with suspected or verified carcinoid tumors concentration of serotonin in tumor-draining veins was clearly elevated in all patients but one. In this patient, who previously had been treated with temporary liver dearterialization, the serotonin concentration in the hepatic vein was within the normal range in spite of the existence of liver metastases. Hyperserotoninemia was registered in one patient without detectable carcinoid tumor cells. In three patients determination of norepinephrine and epinephrine in adrenal venous blood diagnosed a hyperplasia and tumors in the adrenal medulla. In these cases angiography and computed tomography were negative. Microscopic analyses revealed serotonin in all carcinoids and substance P-like immunoreactivity in a large percentage of these tumors. PP-like and glucagon-like immunoreactivity were observed in two endocrine pancreatic tumors. In normal adrenal medulla and in adrenal medullary tumor tissue catecholamine fluorescence and enkephalin-like immunoreactivity were demonstrated. In the two pheochromocytomas ACTH-like, somatostatin-like and calcitonin-like immunoreactivities were identified. The technique with determinations of plasma serotonin and catecholamines in combination with selective catheterization is a useful investigation for the diagnosis, location and follow-up of patients with carcinoids and pheochromocytomas.