Age-associated changes of cerebral glucose metabolic activity in both male and female deaf children: parametric analysis using objective volume of interest and voxel-based mapping. Quantitative analysis of brain activity in the brains of children requires the establishment of age-associated norms. We investigated regional differences in age-associated changes in fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake in the developmental brains. From 87 (44 male and 43 female) deaf children from the age of 1 to 15, brain FDG positron emission tomography (PET) images were examined after spatial normalization, smoothing, and global normalization to identify brain regions showing a correlation between FDG uptake and age. Using population-based probabilistic volume of interests (VOIs), an objective VOI analysis was performed where normalized relative FDG uptake was measured and their correlations with age were examined in both genders. For the voxel-based analyses, the correlations with age were examined in a general linear model using statistical parametric mapping (SPM99). Both methods revealed that FDG uptake linearly increases with age both in the bilateral inferior prefrontal/orbitofrontal gyri and the right dorsomedial frontal gyrus and decreases in the inferior temporal gyrus and internal capsule white matter. Male children showed age-associated increases of FDG uptake in the right dorsomedial frontal gyrus, and female children in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and thalamus. These changes in FDG uptake in various brain regions may suggest changes in synaptic density or regional activity resulting from normal maturation or deaf-induced adaptation. Caution should be exercised in interpreting the differences in the brain of child patients when compared with adult control's or with a different gender. Further research will be needed to examine if gender difference is manifested in the development rate of behavioral/cognitive functions in association with the age-associated changes of the right medial frontal (male) or the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortices.