The benefit of functional-anatomical imaging with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose utilizing a dual-head coincidence gamma camera with an integrated X-ray transmission system in non-small cell lung cancer. To evaluate functional-anatomical imaging with 2-[F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (F-FDG) utilizing a dual-head coincidence gamma camera with an integrated X-ray transmission system for attenuation correction, anatomical mapping, and image fusion compared to conventional diagnostics by computed tomography (CT) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).Thirty-five patients with NSCLC underwent FDG imaging of the thoracic area using a dual-head coincidence gamma camera (DHC) with an integrated X-ray transmission system. State-of-the-art CT scans had been performed before. Whole-body dedicated FDG positron emission tomography (PET) was performed immediately prior to DHC. Staging by CT and DHC, and DHC with integrated image fusion (FDHC) were re-evaluated with regard to detectable lesions, correct anatomical diagnoses, and clinical impact. Results of DHC and PET were compared for analysis of limitations of DHC.One hundred and thirteen tumour lesions were identified by CT. DHC detected 128 lesions overall: 102 true positive CT lesions were confirmed, 25 additional lesions were detected which affected staging in eight patients, and one false positive lung lesion did not show up in DHC. Nine CT lesions were missed by DHC (lymph node and lung). PET detected 150 areas of focally enhanced uptake, delivering two false positive results (nuchal muscles, pneumonia). Final evaluation confirmed 148 malignant lesions. Compared to CT, the results of DHC changed staging or treatment in 8/35 patients (23%). Lesion detection by DHC was limited by tumour size and intensity of FDG uptake. Image fusion provided relevant clinical information in 9/35 patients (26%).Functional imaging in NSCLC with this dual-head gamma camera is superior to morphological imaging by CT, although inferior to dedicated PET imaging. Combined functional-anatomical imaging has the potential to improve staging and localization procedures before surgery or radiotherapy.