Number Recall in the K-ABC in children with auditory processing disorders. Criterion-related validity. In the diagnostic investigation of impaired auditory processing and perception in children one aspect examined is the auditory sequential memory span. The purpose in this study was to examine the diagnostic usefulness of the subtest Number Recall in the German version of the Kaufman Assessment Battery for Children (K-ABC) for goodness of measurement in children referred for auditory processing disorders (APDs).Tests both congruent and divergent from the construct were carried out on a population of children needing investigation for APDs. Digit span was assessed by both the Number Recall subtest in the K-ABC, the subtest Auditory Sequential Memory of the German version of the Illinois Test of Psycholinguistic Abilities (PET) and the Mottier test (nonword repetition). Nonword intelligence was assessed by the German version of the Coloured Progressive Matrices.The study population was made up of 95 consecutive referrals to an outpatient phoniatric/paediatric audiological unit (56 boys, 39 girls).Significant correlations (p<0.0001) were seen between the K-ABC ZN and the PET-ZFG (0.83) and between the K-ABC ZN and the Mottier test (0.64), giving a high convergent validity in children with impaired auditory processing and perception. The coefficient of correlation between scores in Number Recall and intelligence was 0.05, confirming discriminant validity. Boys and girls did not differ in a statistically significant degree in their auditory short-term memory performances, but there was a significant difference between preschool children and schoolchildren, in favour of those already at school.K-ABC-Number Recall is a valid instrument for children with APD. It also reduces the burden for child and clinician, as it measures children's digit span in a shorter time. Discriminant validity (nonverbal intelligence level) was supported in preschool children, but not in schoolchildren.