A template-based approach to semi-quantitative SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging: Independent of normal databases. Normal patient databases (NPDs) are used to distinguish between normal and abnormal perfusion in SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) and have gained wide acceptance in the clinical environment, yet there are limitations to this approach. This study introduces a template-based method for semi-quantitative MPI, which attempts to overcome some of the NPD limitations.Our approach involves the construction of a 3D digital healthy heart template from the delineation of the patient's left ventricle in the SPECT image. This patient-specific template of the heart, filled with uniform activity, is then analytically projected and reconstructed using the same algorithm as the original image. Subsequent to generating bulls-eye maps for the patient image (PB) and the template image (TB), a ratio (PB/TB) is calculated, which produces a reconstruction-artifact corrected image (CB). Finally, a threshold is used to define defects within CB enabling measurements of the perfusion defect extent (EXT). The SPECT-based template (Ts) measurements were compared to those of a CT-based "ideal" template (TI). Twenty digital phantoms were simulated: male and female, each with one healthy heart and nine hearts with various defects. Four physical phantom studies were performed modeling a healthy heart and three hearts with different defects. The phantom represented a thorax with spine, lung, and left ventricle inserts. Images were acquired on General Electric's (GE) Infinia Hawkeye SPECT/CT camera using standard clinical MPI protocol. Finally, our method was applied to 14 patient MPI rest/stress studies acquired on the GE Infinia Hawkeye SPECT/CT camera and compared to the results obtained from Cedars-Sinai's QPS software.In the simulation studies, the true EXT correlated well with the TI (slope= 1.08 offset = -0.40%The authors introduced a method for semi-quantitative SPECT MPI, which offers a patient-specific approach to define the perfusion defect regions within the heart, as opposed to the patient-averaged NPD methodology.