Primary surgery or neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery in advanced ovarian cancer. Advanced ovarian cancer has a poor prognosis. De-bulking surgery and platinum-based chemotherapy are the cornerstones of the treatment. Primary debulking surgery has been the standard of care in advanced ovarian cancer. Recently a new strategy with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery has been developed. In a recently published randomised trial of the EORTC-NCIC (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer - National Cancer Institute Canada) in patients with extensive stage IIIc and IV ovarian cancer it was shown that the survival was similar for patients randomised to neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking compared to primary debulking surgery, followed by chemotherapy. The post-operative complications and mortality rates were lower after interval debulking than after primary debulking surgery. The most important independent prognostic factor for overall survival was no residual tumour after primary or interval debulking surgery. In some patients obtaining the goal of no residual tumour at interval debulking is difficult due to chemotherapy-induced fibrosis. On the other hand the patients randomised had very extensive stage IIIc and IV disease and in patients with metastases smaller than 5 cm the survival tended to be better after primary debulking surgery. Hence, selection of the correct patients with stage IIIc or IV ovarian cancer for primary debulking or neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery is important. Besides imaging with CT, diffusion MRI and/or PET-CT, also laparoscopy can play an important role in the selection of patients. It should be emphasised that the group of patients included in this study had extensive stage IIIc or IV disease. Surgical skills, especially in the upper abdomen, remain pivotal in the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer. However, very aggressive surgery should be tailored according to the general condition and extent of the disease of the patients. Otherwise, this type of aggressive surgery will result in unnecessary postoperative morbidity and mortality without improving survival. Hence, neoadjuvant chemotherapy should not be an easy way out, but is in some patients with stage IIIc or IV ovarian cancer a better alternative treatment option than primary debulking. According to the current treatment algorithm at the University Hospitals Leuven about 50% of the patients with stage IIIc or IV ovarian cancer are selected for neoadjuvant chemotherapy.