Cutaneous manifestations of marantic endocarditis. A 70-year-old patient with a history of hypertension and hypercholesterolemia was referred for evaluation of necrotic toes. The patient had a history of several cerebrovascular accidents during the previous month. Initially, she developed sudden-onset left upper extremity weakness which, over the ensuing 4 days, progressed to complete left-sided weakness. This was followed by the development of acute dysarthria. A transesophageal echocardiogram revealed moderate left ventricular hypertrophy, several vegetations on her tri-leaflet aortic valve associated with moderate aortic regurgitation, and a large right atrial thrombus with a mobile component. Bubble studies failed to reveal any septal defects. The patient's electrocardiogram was nonspecific. As serial blood cultures were negative despite fevers of up to 39.8 degrees C, the patient was treated with a 6-week course of intravenous ceftriaxone, ampicillin, gentamicin, and ciprofloxacin for a presumed diagnosis of culture-negative endocarditis. Fungal cultures of the blood were negative. The patient, however, progressed and developed several necrotic toes. Physical examination was significant for ischemic changes of the left first, second, third, and fifth toes, as well as the right first and second toes. Diffuse subungual splinter hemorrhages in the toenails, numerous 2-4-mm palpable purpuric papules on the lower extremities, and nontender hemorrhagic lesions of the soles were also noted. Peripheral and carotid pulses were intact and no carotid bruits were heard. Cardiopulmonary and abdominal examinations were unremarkable. Neurologic examination revealed a disoriented, dysarthric patient with left central facial nerve paralysis, as well as spasticity, hyperactive reflexes, and diminished strength and sensation in the left upper and lower extremities. A left visual field defect and left hemineglect were also present. The patient's last brain computerized tomogram revealed areas of low attenuation consistent with cerebral infarctions in three distinct areas of the brain. These included the left occipitotemporal area, the right parieto-occipital area, and the right posterior frontal region. The regions affected were in the distribution of both the anterior and posterior circulation. No evidence of hemorrhage was noted. The patient subsequently complained of abdominal discomfort. A computerized tomogram of the abdomen with oral and intravenous contrast revealed a 4-cm x 3-cm irregular mass in the tail of the pancreas with several low-attenuation lesions throughout the liver which were consistent with infarctions or metastases. Several splenic infarctions were also present. A biopsy of the tumor revealed pancreatic adenocarcinoma. The patient's carcinoembryonic antigen level was 18. 4 ng/mL (0-3) and the CA 19-9 antigen level was 207,000 U/mL (0-36). The alpha-fetoprotein level was normal. Other significant laboratory findings included a prothrombin time of 16.7 (international normalized ratio, 1.4), an activated partial thromboplastin time of 32 (ratio, 1.3), and a platelet count of 85,000/mm3. The Russell viper venom time, sedimentation rate, and C3 levels were normal, and the patient was negative for antinuclear antibodies, anticardiolipin antibodies, and antibodies to extractable nuclear antigens. Of note, the patient was not receiving any anticoagulation. Blood cultures for mycobacteria and fungi, human immunodeficiency virus serology, and urinalysis and culture were negative. The patient subsequently developed an inferior wall myocardial infarction and was transferred to the coronary care unit. In line with the family's request, aggressive care was ceased and the patient expired. The patient's family refused an autopsy.