Surgical treatment of acute pancreatitic with infected necrosis by necrosectomy-pancreatostomy. Technical modalities of surgical treatment of infected pancreatic necrosis remains controversial. The aim of this retrospective study was to assess the results of necrosectomy associated by pancreatostomy using active drainage according Mikulicz, which is currently an unusual technique.From 1985 to 1997, 18 consecutive patients (median age = 63 range = 35-88 years) were operated on through laparotomy for infected necrosis and treated by necrosectomy combined with Mikulicz drainage. Fourteen patients were referred from another center, including 9 who had previous surgery. Necrosectomy was performed after a median delay of 22 days (1-45) after onset of pancreatitis, in all patients because of severe sepsis (including 12 patients with persisting shock) and presence at CT scan of necrotic collections containing gas bubbles (n = 15) and/or infection proven by percutaneous aspiration (n = 3).After the first procedure, patients underwent between 2 and 25 (median: 5) additional necrosectomies through the pancreatostomy tract. Thirteen surgical complications were observed in 8 patients: digestive fistula (n = 7), intraabdominal bleeding (n = 3), gastrointestinal haemorrhage (n = 1), colic stenosis with colectasy (n = 1). Five patients, all referred from another center, died (28%) between the 47th and the 140th day from multiorgan failure (n = 4) or gastrointestinal haemorrhage (n = 1). The median hospital stay was 109 days (26-265) including 51 in intensive care unit (1-134). The 13 surviving patients were followed during an average of 2 years (4 months-7 years). All developed an incisional hernia of the pancreatostomy tract, which was surgically treated in 6 cases.Necrosectomy-pancreatostomy is an appropriate treatment of acute pancreatitis with infected necrosis, despite the usual need of additional but easy necrosectomies, and the frequent occurrence of incisional hernia. Results observed in patients referred to our center suggest that earlier diagnosis of necrosis infection using percutaneous aspiration could improve the prognosis.