Quality rating of MR-cholangiopancreatography with oral application of iron oxide particles. To compare image quality in magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) performed with and without oral application of Lösferron (ferrous gluconate, Lilly Pharma, Hamburg).A prospective study compares MRCPs performed on 52 patients with a 1.5 T clinical whole body scanner using a standard body coil. After randomization, patients ingested either 0.5 l of Lösferron (n = 27, group 1) or no oral contrast agent (n = 25, group 2) prior to the examination. 7 RARE (40 to 20 degrees) sequences were obtained, followed by selected 3 mm HASTE (T 2 -weighted with fat suppression) sequences. After blinding, image quality was rated by two radiologists using a scale of 1 (not discernible) to 5 (very well discernible). The following sections of the biliary ductal system were evaluated: left and right hepatic duct, extrahepatic bile duct and intrapancreatic bile duct. The pancreatic duct was evaluated by its location: head, body and tail of the pancreas. A Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test was used to determine significant differences (p < 0.05) between sampled ductal segments. Correction for multiple testing was applied.The oral application of Lösferron was well tolerated by all patients, and all sequences could be acquired and evaluated in all 52 patients. For the different sections of the biliary system, the mean ratings with and without Lösferron were, respectively, 3.28 and 3.36 for the left hepatic duct, 3.26 and 3.33 for the right hepatic duct, 3.46 and 4.0 for the extrahepatic bile duct, and 2.8 and 3.48 for the intrapancreatic bile duct. The corresponding ratings for the pancreatic duct were 2.8 and 3.24 for the pancreatic head, 2.84 and 3.38 for the pancreatic body, and 2.68 and 3.22 for the pancreatic tail. The differences with and without contrast agent were not statistically significant. Interobserver variability was between 0.37 for the pancreatic duct in the tail of the pancreas and 0.66 for the right hepatic duct.Despite the trend toward a better rating of the image quality for all sections of the pancreaticobiliary ductal system with Lösferron, a significant difference was not found in any ductal section after correction for multiple testing. Thus, we believe that the ingestion of Lösferron is not absolutely required prior MRCP.