Diagnosis and treatment of pancreatic metastasis from renal cell carcinoma. Pancreatic metastasis from renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a rare event and has not been reported in our country. We report a series of 3 patients with metastatic RCC to the pancreas after radical nephrectomy at our institution. The published reports in the literature were reviewed, and the diagnosis, treatment as well as prognosis of this rare event were discussed.The data of 3 RCC patients with metastasis to the pancreas were reviewed retrospectively, including radical nephrectomy, metastatic interval, the second and third surgical removal. Survival of the three patients was analyzed and the reports in the literature were compared as well.The average interval from radical nephrectectomy to the comfirmed pancreatic metastasis was 6.6 years (range, 1.2 to 12 years). The pathological stage revealed T2N0M0 (n = 2) or T3N0M0 (n = 1), with right-sided tumor in 2 patients and left side in 1. One patient was asymptomatic, while the other two cases were symptomatic at presentation, including upper abdominal pain, weight loss, slight xanthochromia of the skin and titillation, clay stool (n = 1) irregular fever, weight loss and jaundice (n = 1). All pancreatic metastases were hypervascular on arterial stage of CT imaging. One patient had only a solitary pancreatic metastasis (n = 1), the another showed two metastatic lesions (n = 1), the third one had multiple lesions (n = 1). Surgical removal was accomplished in 2 patients: including pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy in one, and pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy together with partial tail resection in another one. The third one only received interventional therapy due to widespread extrapancreatic metastasis, and died of disseminated disease 11 months after the therapy. One of the above two surgically treated patients underwent the second removal due to local recurrence 2.5 years after the first removal of pancreatic metastasis. These two patients were still alive after follow-up of 8.6 years and 16.1 years, respectively.Renal cell carcinoma is an unpredictable tumor that may demonstrate very delayed metastasis even from early-stage of the disease. The pancreas is a rare site of metastasis from renal cell carcinoma. We advocate careful long-term follow-up of patients with a history of RCC. Aggressive surgical management of pancreatic metastatic lesions may provide a chance of long-term survival.