Cystic neoplasms of the pancreas. Eight patients with cystic neoplasms of the pancreas were seen at four Northern California hospitals between the years 1978 and 1986. Three of the tumors were benign and five were malignant. Three females, whose average age was 61 years, had cystadenomas. Three females and two males, whose average age was 48 years, had mucinous cystadenocarcinomas. Clinical presentations were similar among all patients. Abdominal pain was a prominent feature. Anorexia, weight loss, nausea and vomiting with a palpable abdominal mass were seen in five of eight patients. Obstructive jaundice was seen in two of eight patients. Among patients with benign lesions, one lesion was in the head and two lesions were in the tail of the pancreas. The malignant lesions were in the head of the pancreas in three patients and in the tail or body in two. A presumptive diagnosis was made preoperatively on the basis of the clinical, laboratory and roentgenographic findings in seven of eight patients. Of the patients with benign tumors, two are alive and well at seven years and four months and one patient was lost to follow-up study at four years. Among the patients with a malignant condition who underwent operation, resection for cure was performed upon four patients. One patient died postoperatively and the other three patients are alive and well without evidence of a recurrence at three and one-half, four and four years after resection. Pancreaticoduodenectomy was performed upon two patients and distal pancreatectomy in another. Palliation was attempted in one critically ill patient with an unresectable tumor by longitudinal pancreaticojejunostomy. This procedure was not effective in providing pain relief because of obstruction of the pancreatic duct by the viscous mucoid secretion of the tumor. The preoperative diagnosis of these very rare tumors is usually possible roentgenographically, especially with the use of the computed tomography scan. The presence of a thick mucoid secretion of high viscosity is diagnostic of mucinous cystadenocarcinoma. Cystic neoplasms of the pancreas should always be resected, if possible, with the expectation of long term survival.