Role of computerized tomography in percutaneous drainage of acute infected necrotic-hemorrhagic pancreatitis. In the last few years, Computed Tomography (CT) has emerged as the most sensitive and reliable imaging technique to diagnose acute pancreatitis (AP). Besides assessing the extent of damage to the pancreas and to periglandular tissue. CT can recognize the major early and late complications of the disease promptly and with extreme accuracy. We investigated the diagnostic capabilities of CT in controlling AP development and tried to assess the role of interventional radiology as a therapeutic support after or instead of surgery in treating the necrotic forms of pancreatitis complicated by sepsis. From 1989 to 1995, acute pancreatitis mostly due to biliary tract disease and alcoholism was diagnosed in 228 patients. Necrotic processes were identified in 105 of them since disease onset septic complications developed in 57 patients. Surgery was performed in 42 patients, but the result was poor in 11 of them (30%) and CT showed the persistence of some infectious pancreatic exudate which had been drained insufficiently. Since sepsis persisted in these patients, the exudate was aspirated percutaneously after positioning appropriate drainage means guided by abdominal CT. Sepsis resolved completely in 10 patients, while one required subsequent surgery. Percutaneous drainage catheters were positioned in 15 patients as the treatment of choice, under CT and US guidance. Sepsis resolved in 7 cases only (45%), while 3 of the extant patients died and 5 needed surgery. The results of our experience demonstrate the effectiveness of percutaneous drainage under CT guidance. However, this technique should be used after and as a support to surgery, the latter remaining the treatment of choice for infectious necrotic AP. Thus, in our experience, the use of percutaneous aspiration instead of surgery proved to be a less effective tool in curing this condition and its use should therefore be limited to high-risk surgical patients.