Thin-layer cytology findings of small cell carcinoma of the lower female genital tract. Review of three cases with molecular analysis. To describe the thin-layer cytology findings of small cell carcinoma of the low female genital tract, with histologic correlation and human papillomavirus (HPV) genotyping.The authors reviewed the clinical findings, thin-layer cytology and histologic features of small cell carcinoma of the lower female genital tract (cervix or vagina) occurring in three postmenopausal Chinese women at Pamela Youde Nethersole Eastern Hospital, Hong Kong, over a four-year period, from January 1998 to December 2001. Molecular techniques for HPV screening and genotyping using the polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism were employed on the cytologic specimens.The thin-layer preparations were of moderate to high cellularity. There were loose aggregates of or isolated small round cells with a high nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio, thin but irregular nuclear membrane, hyperchromatic nuclei, inconspicuous nucleoli and scanty cytoplasm. Tumor cell cannibalism was commonly found. Small groups of tumor cells with nuclear molding were noted. There was also obvious tumor diathesis in the background. The necrotic debris was admixed with isolated small round cells, apoptotic bodies and nuclear dust. Associated koilocytosis or squamous intraepithelial lesions were not seen. Histologic examination of the tumor biopsies showed classic features of small cell carcinoma associated with squashing artifacts and vascularized stroma. Molecular analysis revealed the presence of HPV DNA (either type 18 or 16) in all the three liquid-based cytology samples.While the cytomorphologic features of small cell carcinoma of the cervix or vagina in thin-layer preparations are slightly different from those in conventional smears, due mainly to the absence of smearing effect, recognition of the subtle but characteristic appearance can enhance the accuracy of the cytologic diagnosis. The association between HPV and primary small cell carcinoma of the lower female genital tract was confirmed by this study.