Our experience with the LEEP/LLETZ technique in the diagnostics and treatment of the precancer lesions of the uterine cervix. The aim of the present study was to asses the possibilities of the LEEP/LLETZ technique at the diagnostics and treatment of the precancer lesions of the uterine cervix. For the period 2000-2004, the study involved 114 women, aged between 17-68 years (mean 38.4) with different grades of cytological, colposcopical and histological abnormalities. The loop electroexcision of the transformation zone or the changed area of the uterine cervix under local anesthesia was performed to all of the patients using the original Cooper Surgical system (USA), followed by histological assessment of the findings. The results obtained show: in 9 women (7.9%) was found normal or other benign epithelium, in 3 (2.6%) histological data of a pure HPV infection, in - 64 CIN I (56.1 %) of which in 28 cases, associated with HPV, in 23 CIN II (20.2%) in 15 with signs of HPV, in 13 CIN III (11.4%) in 7 of the cases with HPV and in 2 (1.8%) microinvasive cancer. More excessive bleeding was presented during the excision at 7 women (6.1%), which was attributed to the pilot step of the introduction of the technique. Coagulation artifacts were presented at 42 women (36.8%), they were significant at 8 (19.1%) of them. Residual disease was found at 7 women (4.9%), all of them with involved margins, but the special attention should receive two cases, one of them with micro invasion up to 750 micron, at the subsequent hysterectomy the residual changes were not found. At the second case the following radical hysterectomy found the residual small cell no keratinized squamous cell cancer with microinvasion up to 3000 micron, without metastases at the regional lymph nodes. The analyses of the morphological findings, as well as the follow-up of the patients support the good possibilities of the LEEP/LLETZ technique at the diagnostics and treatment of the precancer lesions of the uterine cervix. The advantages and failings of this technique are discussed.