The evaluation of human papillomavirus genotyping in cervical liquid-based cytology specimens using the Roche Linear Array HPV genotyping assay. To ascertain the usefulness of the Roche Linear Array human papillomavirus (HPV) genotyping assay for assessing HPV genotypes in liquid-based cytology (LBC) samples and to evaluate this methodology within a cytopathology laboratory. These tests are of importance as persistent infection with high-risk HPV genotypes is considered a causal factor in the development of cervical cancer.A total of 175 cervical LBC samples were tested using the Roche Linear Array HPV genotyping test. The suitability of the assay use in routine cytopathology laboratory was considered. HPV genotypes were matched to the cervical cytology results, which included negative, borderline nuclear abnormalities, mild, moderate and severe dyskaryosis.The assay could be applied to screening samples with the combined result available at the reporting stage. There were no test failures. All samples used after cytological analysis had sufficient DNA for testing. The results were reproducible and easily read and there was concordance of results between biomedical scientists. The results of the assay showed co-infection with multiple HPV genotypes was common in both high-grade and low-grade cytology samples. The percentage of HPV+ samples in the normal cytology samples (although in this grouping the number of samples was low) was 37%. In the cytology samples reported as severe dyskaryosis the HPV genotypes most commonly found were HPV16 and HPV51.The assay was able to detect multiple HPV infection with a wide range of genotypes in LBC samples sent for routine cytological analysis. It would be suitable for use in a cytopathology laboratory. The results of the assay show that the genotype profile has some variation from other geographical regions, and more work is needed to determine population prevalence, to ascertain the impact of the HPV vaccine, to evaluate test for cure and HPV triage management.