Prevalence and type distribution of human papillomavirus infection using the INNo-Lipa assay, Kerman, Southeast Iran. The human papilloma virus (HPV) causes skin and mucous membrane infections. It crosses from one person to another by skin-to-skin contact, such as sexual contact. There are more than 100 types of HPV that can influence different parts of the body. Some types of HPV can cause cancer (such as cervical or anal cancer) and others can cause warts (such as genital or plantar warts). HPV infection is one of the most common sexually transmitted infections (STIs) in Iran and around the world. Considerable molecular evidence suggests a role for human papilloma virus (HPV) in the pathogenesis of carcinoma. Epidemiological studies on human papilloma viruses (HPVs) infections in general population are critical for the performing of health policy guidelines for developing the strategies to hinder the primary and secondary different cancer. In different parts of Iran, there is a lack of population-based studies to determine the prevalence of HPV in the general population. The aim of this population-based study was therefore to report the prevalence ratse of HPV types among Iranian patients. To study the risk of human papilloma virus (HPV) infection, we managed a retrospective study in Kerman province, southeast of Iran. For this purpose, 410 patients tested for the presence of HPV DNA using PCR and INNo- Lipa assays. HPV DNA was detected in 108 out of 410 patients (26.34%), while it was not detected in any of the control group samples. Patients included 23 (21.1%) males and 86 (78.8%) females. HPV type 6 was the most common (49%) followed by HPV type 16 (10.1%), and also HPV type11 (9.2%). The prevalence of HPV in Iran is comparable to those reported in other regions of the world. In a similar manner, it seems that HPV types 6, 16 and11 are the most common types in Kerman. Additional studies on larger group of patients, particularly in those with pre-invasive forms of disease, are needed to explain the roles of different HPV types in this location of Iran. 