Matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)--MMP-1,-2,-9 and its endogenous activity regulators in transformed by E7 oncogene HPV16 and HPV18 cervical carcinoma cell lines. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) play a key role in development of tumor invasion and metestasis. The purpose of the work is the elucidation of peculiarities of expression of MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-9 and their activity regulators: plasminogen activator uPA and tissue inhibitors of MMPs - TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 in human cell lines of squoamous cell carcinoma (SCC). Comparative study of MMPs' expression was carried out on cell lines SCC which differed in HPV types (HPV-16 and HPV-18): SiHa, Caski - HPV16, Hela, C4-1 - HPV18). As a control, the C33A line was used where HPV copies were absent. The human papilloma viruses (HPV) of high risk--HPV-16, HPV-18, as etiological factors of initiation of cervical cancer, are most widespread and most aggressive among oncogenic HPVs. Study of MMP expression involved estimation of expression of mRNA using the RT-PCR method and determination of collagenolytic activity by hydrolysis of fluorogenic type 1 collagen and also by the zymography method. It was shown that: 1. In both types of cell lines, the MMP-1 expression was essentially increased (2 to 8 times), and in HPV18 lines it was most expressed. The exception was made by the SiHa line in which the decrease of expression of this enzyme was observed. MMP-2 expression was at the control level in both types of cell lines. 2. Expression of inhibitors generally was at the control level. The only exception was the C4-1 line where the expression of TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 was increased in 1,7 and 2,6 times accordingly. Expression of uPA was increased 2 to 4, 5 times in all cell lines except Siha where was lowered to 20%. 3. Collagenolytic activity in the Caski and Hela cell line was 2-3 times higher that it was in control, while the activity in the SiHa cell line was compatible with that in the control. Research of gelatinolytic activity also as well as the data on an expression MPHK has revealed only presence MMFP-2, but not MMP-9 in all cervical carcinoma cell lines. The data obtained provide evidence for a significant disturbance in transformed cells of enzyme/inhibitor/activator ratio--which occurs, for the most part, at the cost of elevated expression of MMP-1 and its activator whereas the expression of MMP-2 and inhibitors remains virtually unchanged, which leads to the increase of the destructive potential of transformed cells.