Detection of human papillomavirus in cervical biopsies of summer camp ROTC cadets with abnormal papanicolaou smears. Human papillomavirus (HPV) infections may be the most common sexually transmitted disease (STD) among adolescents and young adults. A strong association exists for certain "high-risk" HPV-type cervical infections and subsequent evolution of cervical cancer and its precursor lesions. The objective of this study was to detect HPV in cervical biopsies of reserve officer training corps (ROTC) cadets attending a regional summer camp who had abnormal screening Papanicolaou (Pap) smears and to better define the spectrum of HPV oncogenic risk types for this population. It was hypothesized that HPV would be detected in the majority of cervical biopsies in keeping with the evolving concept of cervical cancer and its precursors as an STD and the central role of HPV in its development.On arrival for summer military camp training, college women cadets underwent physical examinations that included pelvic examinations for Pap smears. Study participants completed confidential questionnaires after informed consent was obtained. Subjects, who had abnormal Pap smears as defined by reports of atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASCUS) or low- or high-grade squamous intra-epithelial lesions (LGSIL or HGSIL), underwent colposcopic evaluations with cervical biopsies. Subsequently, biopsies were processed for detection of HPV-specific DNA by gel electrophoresis, chemiluminescent oligonucleotide probing, and DNA-RNA hybridization methods after polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification.All female summer camp enrollees presented to the Madigan Army Medical Center Gynecology Clinic for complete physicals before the onset of the training program and were solicited for study inclusion.All colposcopic biopsy specimens were evaluated for the presence of HPV DNA and subtyped if positive.Representing 42 states, 95% (332) of eligible subjects participated. Mean age was 21.9 years. Racial composition included 70% white, 16% black, 4% Hispanic, 4% Asian, and 6% "other." Eighty-five percent had a history of hetero-sexual activity, with 17.7 years as the mean age at onset. Of the subjects, 12.6% reported a previous diagnosis of a sexually transmitted disease, and 7.8% (26 of 332) had abnormal Pap smears. Of these, colposcopic biopsy results were available for 25 of the 26 abnormal Pap smears. Ninety-six percent (24 of 25) of the colpobiopsies had detectable HPV. Eighty-eight percent (22 of 25) of the subjects with abnormal Pap smears had concurrent abnormal biopsy results. All of these had detectable HPV, confirmed by three different methods, and 29% had dual HPV infection. Sixty percent had "intermediate" or "high-risk" types identified by specific genotyping, 8% had "low-risk" types, and 28% had nontypable HPV.The data confirm that abnormal Pap smears in this young adult college population are almost always associated with HPV infection, a significant proportion of it being other than low-risk types. The prognostic significance of type-specific cervical HPV infection still needs to be better defined in relation to potential cofactors and host immune response. However, clinicians who provide primary gynecologic care to adolescents and young adults should be aware of the high correlation between abnormal Pap smears and HPV cervical infection and should follow up the patient with the potential risk in mind.