Community acquired urinary tract infection among hospitalized children in northern Israel: pathogens, susceptibility patterns and urinary tract anomalies. Urinary tract infection (UTI) is one of the most common diseases in children. Vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) has been demonstrated in a substantial number of young children with UTI. Empiric antibacterial therapy is recommended before results of the urine culture are available in order to shorten the duration of the disease and prevent renal complications.The aims of this study were to assess the prevalence and susceptibility patterns of UTI pathogens, and urinary anomalies in children admitted with UTI.The study population included 151 children younger than 14 years admitted with first UTI. Renal ultrasound was performed in all the patients and voiding cystourethrography (VCUG) in children younger than 5 years. Dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) scan was performed in children with vesicoureteral reflux. The data included age, sex, symptoms and signs, urinalysis, the pathogen and its sensitivity and the results of the imaging studies.A total of 119 patients (79%) were females. Gram negative rods caused 98% of the infections, of which Escherichia coli (87%) was the most prevalent pathogen, followed by Klebsiella pneumoniae (4%), and Proteus mirabilis (4%). The sensitivities to antibacterial agents were: Amikacin 100%, ceftazidime 97%, gentamicin 96%, ceftriaxone 96%, cefuroxime 95%, amoxicillin-clavulanate 84%, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole 63%, cephalexin 58%, and ampicillin 28%. Renal US showed minor abnormalities in 24/149 (16%) and VCUG demonstrated vesicoureteral reflux in 38/127 (30%) patients. DMSA revealed renal scars in 7/28 (25%) children with vesicoureteral reflux.Overall Gram negative rods cause 98% of the UTI in hospitalized children in our area. E. coli is the leading pathogen and aminoglycosides and second or third generation cephalosporins are the most suitable agents for empiric therapy in UTI. A high incidence of renal scars in young children with vesicoureteral reflux was found.