Non-invasive urodynamic approach to the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of voiding disorders in pediatric patients. The authors reports their experience on 248 patients affected by minctional disorders isolated or related to UTI (upper tract infections) and VUR (vesico-ureteral reflux). All the patients were assessed throught a predominantly non invasive diagnostic approach which included: pediatric urologic examination with aimed anamnestic and clinical freaming, functional examination of the lower urinary tract using uroflowmetry + EMG of the perineal plane muscles (UR + EMG), kidney and bladder ultrasound. This methodology has permitted a widening of the indications in the study of vesical function as well as limiting the selected cases (hight UTI, uncertain diagnosis) of mini-invasive examination, such as flow pressure study, minctional cystourethrogram (MC) and or renal scintigraphy. An MNR of the lumbo-sacral medulla (cord) and a neurological and/or neurosurgery evaluation were only carried out were there was a suspected occult neurological pathology. The clinical sintomatogy was as follows: approximately 70% of the patients suffered from partial diurnal incontinence, 42% were affected by secondary nocturnal enuresis while 58.6% suffered from recurrent UTI. In those patients with UTI, 11% (16 patients, 24 ureteral units) suffered from associated VUR while 3.5% suffered from either congenital or acquired urethral stenosis. From the urodynamic examination, we determined the presence of detrusorial instability in 158 patients (64%) and lazy bladder or vescical hypotonia in 84 patients (34%). The suggested therapy foresees the use of: hospital home-based uroriabilitation (minctional biofeedback), endoscopic therapy (sub-ureteral bulking, urethral dilatation) and corrective VUR surgery (only in those cases that did not respond to medical treatment). The percentage of total recovery in patients with detrusorial instability was 80%, the minctional biofeedback both associated and unassociated with drug therapy lead to complete recovery in 66% of patients with lazy and uncordinated bladder, wile 26% showed improvement and 7 patients (8.4%) did not respond. All the patients with VUR (24 reflux units) recovered and endoscopic therapy and or surgery (12 reflux units) was carried out in some of this patients.