The status of domestic PET/CT attendance in the light of the waiting list data. The aim of the study is to demonstrate the diagnostic and geographical distribution of the domestic PET/CT examinations financed by the OEP based on the data from the waiting list of the past 4 years. The analysis of the demonstrated data can support the rational usage of PET/CT examination contingents in the domestic oncological attendance, which has growing importance. PET examinations with oncological aims have started in Debrecen more than 10 years ago. In 2005 already 1500 PET examinations have been carried out. According to the governmental regulation accepted in 2006, OEP ensures the financing of the three PET/CT centers until 2012, which means 12,000 examinations in 2012. However, the number of domestic oncological patients requiring PET/CT examinations can reach the number of 20,000-30,000 patients. The study summarizes the number of patients who applied for PET/CT examinations for the first time and later again between 2006 and 2010, based on the data of the waiting list, and the change of the patient assigning diagnosis and the number of examinations carried out with 18F-FDG and with 11C-methionine. The study demonstrates the number of examinations by counties which characterize the population's access to PET/CT. The assigning diagnosis in 2007 was already widespread and focused on problems. After the regulation came in to force in 2008 the possibilities significantly decreased. Clinical cases which were efficiently examined with PET/CT earlier were left out from the indication list. The distribution by county is uneven, although the number of examinations increases year by year. The number of repeated examinations increases as well. As a conclusion, the annual PET/CT examination contingents are constantly exploited. This might seem sufficient, because the method has not become a part of the oncological routine in all counties. Although the current indication list includes the most frequent oncological cases requiring PET/CT, the abandoning of the less frequent ones narrowed the professional latitude, which is disadvantageous for the patients suffering from such diseases. The radiopharmacon supply of PET/CT centers is inadequate thus they cannot provide modern oncological diagnostic attendance in case of frequent types of cancer (such as prostate). In the long run the growing number of repeated PET/CT examinations built in the oncological professional protocol has to be taken into account.