 Cholecystokinin (CCK) is a peptide hormone that has an important role in the digestion of food because it stimulates contraction of the gallbladder and pancreatic enzyme secretion, and in the presence of secretin it enhances blood flow and bicarbonate secretion from the pancreas (1). CCK is produced and released by cells of the duodenum and the jejunum in response to a variety of peptides, amino acids, and fatty acids, but not carbohydrates. In addition to its activity in the gut, CCK is also known to act as a neurotransmitter in the brain (2). Mouse and human CCK genes show a very high homology (>70%) and act through two receptors designated as CCK-AR (or CCK1R) and CCK-BR (or CCK2R) under physiological conditions CCK acts primarily through the CCK-AR (3). Pancreatic secretions have also been shown to be mediated by CCK through the indirect cholinergic vagal innervations pathway, which indicates that CCK receptors are also present on vagal neurons (4). Although the original CCK molecule was purified as a peptide (33 amino acids) from porcine intestine, several forms of the peptide including CCK58, CCK39, CCK33, CCK22, and CCK8 have been isolated from the intestines of various animals. Among these CCK peptide forms, the C-terminal heptapeptide possesses the complete spectrum of activities attributed to the parent molecule (1). The long forms of the molecule are known to have a longer circulation half-life compared with the shorter molecules, and they also show some differences in their biological activities (5, 6). A splice variant of the CCK-BR that was identified in colorectal and pancreatic cancer tissue was shown to bind CCK8 and other related peptides such as gastrin (7). The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved several clinical trials involving CCK for the treatment of different gastrointestinal disorders such as bulimia nervosa, chronic pancreatitis, and binge eating. The field of receptors has received a great deal of attention because of its involvement in a variety of cancers, and the development of antibodies and peptides that show high binding specificity for the receptors has encouraged investigators to use receptor imaging techniques to detect and diagnose the different diseases as well as to devise appropriate treatments (8-10). The use of peptides for imaging has certain advantages over the use of intact proteins (e.g., antibodies) because peptides are easy (and relatively inexpensive) to synthesize, show high receptor affinity and specificity, usually have fast clearance from circulation, and produce a high tumor/normal tissue signal ratio (8, 11). Because of their superior performance over intact proteins or antibodies, somatostatin-based peptides such as octreotide labeled with radioactive indium or technetium (