Anti-carcinoembryonic antigen antibodies versus somatostatin analogs in the detection of metastatic medullary thyroid carcinoma: are carcinoembryonic antigen and somatostatin receptor expression prognostic factors? Surgery is currently the only potentially curative approach in the treatment of medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC). In many instances however, postsurgically elevated or rising plasma calcitonin and/or carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels indicate persistent metastatic disease, although conventional diagnostic procedures (computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and invasive venous catheterization) fail to localize the responsible lesions. Recently, anti-CEA antibodies and somatostatin analogs have shown promising results in the staging of MTC. The aim of this study was to compare the sensitivity of both methodologies, especially for the detection of occult MTC, and to assess whether there may be correlations between the scintigraphic behavior and the patients' prognosis.A total of 26 patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma were examined at our institution between 1977 and 1996. Ten of them had known disease, 14 had occult metastatic MTC, and 2 were free of disease at the time of presentation. Fourteen patients were investigated with anti-CEA monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) (receiving a total of 35 injections: clones BW431/26, BW431/31, IMACIS, or F023C5, labeled with 99mTc, (111)In or (131)I), and 8 patients were studied with (111)In-labeled octreotide. Two patients received potentially therapeutic doses of (131)I-labeled anti-CEA antibodies. All patients underwent conventional radiologic evaluation (ultrasonography, CT, and MRI) and/or biopsy within 4 weeks. Additional imaging was performed with 99mTc-(V)-DMSA, (131)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine, 201thallium chloride, 99mTc-methylene diphosphate, and/or 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography. Clinical follow-up was obtained.All patients with established disease had elevated plasma CEA (range, 6.8-345 ng/mL calcitonin levels between 92 and 11,497 pg/mL), whereas in 9 of 14 occult cases, levels were < or = 5 ng/mL (range, 0.6-829 ng/mLFor the detection of occult MTC, anti-CEA MAbs and octreotide seem to have a sensitivity that is superior to conventional diagnostic modalities, especially also when used in combination. Better detectability with anti-CEA antibodies (which may result in higher CEA expression) seems to be associated with more aggressively growing forms of MTC, whereas somatostatin receptor expression at normal CEA plasma levels and weaker MAb targeting may be associated with a more benign clinical course. This is in accordance with the study of Busnardo et al. (Cancer 1984 53:278-85), who showed higher CEA serum levels to be associated with a worse prognosis, as well as with the in vitro findings of Reubi et al. (Lab Invest 1991