Striking findings concerning the variability in the measurement of the fetal renal collecting system. Using strict thresholds of normality, investigators have reported associations between fetal pyelectasis and aneuploidy, obstructive uropathy, postnatal pyeloplasty and vesicoureteral reflux. Although evidence continues to mount regarding the importance of fetal pyelectasis, little is known of the variability of collecting system measurements. To investigate the short-term variability and its relationship to bladder dilatation, the following study was conducted.During May and June 1996, 20 mid- and late-trimester patients with varying degrees of fetal pyelectasis were recruited into this study. Each consented to undergo periodic (every 15 min for 2 h) ultrasound measurements of the fetal renal collecting systems and bladder. To account for anatomic and technical variability in measurement, we used both the sum of the transverse and anterior-posterior (AP) measurements of the collecting systems, and AP measurement alone for comparison. The variability of the collecting system measurements was assessed based upon gestational age, magnitude of pyelectasis and fetal bladder size.We investigated 38 renal units in 20 patients (eight in the second trimester and 12 in the third). The mean(SE) AP diameter of all kidneys was 5.89(2.49) mm (range 15 (2-17) mm), and the sum of transverse and AP renal collecting system diameters was 13.91(5.73) mm (range 26 (4-31) mm). These data were normally distributed. When assessing the variability in individual kidneys over time, we found the mean variation (minimum to maximum) for the sum of the AP and transverse measurement to be 7.61(4.26) mm and for the AP measurement alone to be 3.80(2.49) mm. No relationship was found between variability of dilatation, magnitude of dilatation or fetal bladder size. Cyclic dilatation of the fetal bladder was observed in all cases. The mean time from maximal to minimal dilatation was 20 min (1.34 observations range 12-30 min).We found the size of the fetal renal collecting system to be highly variable over the course of a 2-h period. Seventy per cent of cases (14 of 20) had both normal (< 4 mm) and abnormal values (> or = 4 mm) during the 2-h study period. Significant caution should be used when considering the implications of renal collecting system dilatation based upon a single AP measurement.