Skewed X-chromosome inactivation is associated with trisomy in women ascertained on the basis of recurrent spontaneous abortion or chromosomally abnormal pregnancies. An increase in extremely skewed X-chromosome inactivation (XCI) (> or = 90%) among women who experienced recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA) has been previously reported. To further delineate the etiology of this association, we have evaluated XCI status in 207 women who experience RSA. A significant excess of trisomic losses was observed among the women who had RSA with skewed XCI versus those without skewed XCI (P=.02). There was also a significant excess of boys among live births in this group (P=.04), which is contrary to expectations if the cause of skewed XCI was only that these women carried X-linked lethal mutations. To confirm the association between skewed XCI and the risk of trisomy, an independent group of 53 women, ascertained on the basis of a prenatal diagnosis of trisomy mosaicism, were investigated. Only cases for which the trisomy was shown to be of maternal meiotic origin were included. The results show a significantly higher level of extreme skewing (> or = 90%) in women whose pregnancies involved placental trisomy mosaicism (17%) than in either of two separate control populations (n=102 and 99) (P=.02 compared with total control subjects). An additional 11 cases were ascertained on the basis of one or more trisomic-pregnancy losses. When all women in the present study with a trisomic pregnancy (n=103) were considered together, skewed XCI was identified in 18%, as compared with 7% in all controls (n=201) (P=.005). This difference was more pronounced when a cutoff of extreme skewing of 95% was used (10% vs. 1.5% skewed P=.002). Maternal age was not associated with skewing in either the patient or control populations and therefore cannot account for the association with trisomy. Previous studies have shown that a reduced ovarian reserve is associated with increased risk of trisomic pregnancies. We hypothesize that the association between skewed XCI and trisomic pregnancies is produced by a common mechanism that underlies both and that involves a reduction of the size of the follicular pool.