Quality of nuchal translucency measurements in The Netherlands: a quantitative analysis. The Dutch Centre for Population Research has specified quality demands for nuchal translucency (NT) measurement in The Netherlands. We performed an analysis of the quality of NT measurement in 2005-2006 and its influence on screening performance.This was a retrospective study of records of NT measurements (n = 27,738) obtained between January 2005 and December 2006 retrieved from the Dutch National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM). The performance of each individual operator was analyzed with regard to the quality standards, which involved calculation of operator-specific median NT-multiples of the median (MoM) values. For the entire population of operators, a curve was determined describing the relationship between crown-rump length and NT. Detection rates (DR) and false-positive rates (FPR) for Down syndrome were modeled with this new curve and compared to those originally obtained using previously published reference data.Only 22% of all operators met the quality requirement of performing more than 150 NT measurements per year. However, no relationship was found between the number of measurements per operator and their median NT-MoM. The mean of all operator-specific median NT-MoM values was 0.94 (target value 1.0). Overall, operators with The Fetal Medicine Foundation certificate measured a significantly higher median NT-MoM (mean of operator-specific medians, 0.98) as compared to the non-certified operators (0.92). During the study period, the monthly median NT-MoM of all operators rose steadily, from 0.86 in January 2005 to 0.96 in December 2006. Recalculation of the risk for Down syndrome after adjusting the reference NT medians using our own data led to a modeled 4% increase in DR at a 5% FPR.Improved monitoring of NT measurement put into effect during the study period seems to have led to an improvement in the accuracy of measurements. Strict quality demands, continued monitoring and scrupulous evaluation of individual operators is likely to lead to an even better performance.