Selective reduction in multiple gestation. As new advances in the treatment and management of infertility become available, it is hoped that selective reduction procedures will no longer be necessary. In the interim, however, it is imperative that nurses be knowledgeable about the options available to parents experiencing multifetal pregnancy, including the choice of selective reduction procedures.Selective reduction in multiple gestation refers to abortion of specific fetuses, either because of congenital defect of grand multiple gestation.  Fetal indications for which selective termination has been reported are Down syndrome, microcephaly, hemophilia A, spina bifida, thalassemia major and Tay-Sachs disease.  Grand multiple gestations, defined as 4 or more fetuses in a pregnancy, have been selectively terminated in cases of 4-9 fetuses.  Most couples choose to reduce multiple gestations to twin pregnancies.  Very short women with multiple gestation are particularly at risk.  Methods used have included needle aspiration of amniotic fluid, cardiac puncture and aspiration, and intrathoracic injection of KC1 or calcium gluconate.  Potassium chloride is preferred because it is rapid, so results can be determined immediately without having to repeat the procedure.  It is preferable to time the termination at 11 weeks' gestation to lower the risk of disseminated intravascular coagulation, which can result from absorption of fetal tissue.  Most gynecologists prefer to select for fundal implantations.  The ethical alternatives of this type of termination are either to abort the entire pregnancy, or risk the life of the mother as well as the life and well-being of all the fetuses.  Most women with multiple gestations are those with history of infertility, who have gone to greater expense and emotional investment to become pregnant.  Legally, selective reduction is a type of 1st trimester abortion, subject to institutional experimental protocols and patient's informed consent.