Spermicides and birth defects. Jick and collagues reported last year a cohort study of 4665 patients from the Group Health Cooperative (CHC) in Seattle, suggesting that presumed spermicide users had infants with a higher rate of malformations than presumed nonusers.  They reported a 2-fold increase in major malformations and specific increases for Down's syndrome, limb reduction deformities, and hypospadias.  They also noted an increase for neoplasms.  The authors regarded the data as tentative because no well-defined syndrome was found among the infants of users.  The diversity of the increased malformations was another strong reason to consider the findings tentative.  There are other reasons for considering the findings tentative or preliminary.  One must have reservations regarding the accuracy with which infants were classified as exposed or unexposed.  The authors argue that the vast majority of GHC members who used spermicides obtained them from the GHC pharmacy.  Their argument is not based on direct data but on a study that showed that 98% of GHC women who took hormones, available only by prescription, obtained them from the pharmacy.  The argument is weak, since spermicides are relatively inexpensive and widely available without prescription.  It is likely that GHC members did purchase spermicides "on the outside."  Insufficient information is given to know to what extent such purchases occurred and whether such purchases were biased.  Without such information, it is necessary to ask whether misclassification played a role in the reported positive associations.  The reported incidence of major malformations in hospital-based studies is about 2%.  The fact that the 2-fold increase in the study is based on the apparent 50% decrease in reporting of defects in the "unexposed" group rather than on an increase above the 2% level for the "exposed" group argues for the tentative nature of these findings.  In this issue of the JAMA, Shapiro et al. report from the Collaborative Perinatal Study data that they can find no increase of overall malformations among 476 infants with a history of 1st trimester exposure to nonmercurial spermicides when compared with 49,820 unexposed infants.  Polendak et al. reports on spermicide exposure of 715 women who had infants with major malformations.  On the basis of the 3 studies it seems clear that no causal association has been shown between spermicide use and birth defects.