Fetal nephro-/uropathy: a retrospective analysis of 124 cases seen in the period from 1996 to 2002. The embryological development of the kidneys and the urinary tract follows a complex choreography. Disorders are quite common. The incidence of disorders amounts to 0.3 - 0.8 % of live-born infants. In addition, several chromosomal anomalies are combined with renal malformations. The poor prognosis of some of these diseases is reflected in a perinatal mortality of 6.3 %.Retrospectively 124 cases with fetal nephro-/uropathy detected by prenatal ultrasonography between 1996 and 2002 were analyzed. Features of hypo-dysplastic kidneys (uni- or bilateral) were seen in 21 cases. Multicystic kidney disease (uni- or bilateral) existed in 40 fetuses. In some cases of multicystic or dysplastic kidney diseases, extrarenal malformations were combined. 21 fetuses suffered from autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease. 18 male unborns showed the typical picture of intravesical obstruction due to posterior uretheral valves. The prune belly syndrome was seen 4 times. Hydronephrotic kidneys with more than 5 mm pelvic dilatation were detected in 13 cases. Renal agenesis led to a lethal outcome perinatally in 5 cases. One child died of bilateral thrombosis of renal artery and venous system.The high incidence of diseases with a poor prognosis accounts for the high mortality of 50.8 % (intrauterine or postnatal death, induced abortion). Such a fatal outcome was observed in autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease, bilateral multicystic dysplastic kidney disease, bilateral renal dysplasia combined with severe extrarenal malformations, intravesical obstruction, renal agenesis and bilateral thrombosis of the renal vessels. Only 60 children survived. Of these 26 needed urological surgery. 15 suffered from progressive renal insufficiency. During a follow-up of 8 - 58 months only 44 exhibited a normal renal function.Such complex renal and urological diseases in the fetus require an interdisciplinary management of the pregnancy.