Hypercoagulability during pregnancy: evidences for a thrombophilic state. The development of thrombotic disorders is a major threat for young women during pregnancy. It is one of the main causes of pregnancy-related disorders, which may also result in harm for the conceptus. Successful pregnancies require an even balance of coagulation and fibrinolysis, in order to secure stabilization of the basal plate as well as adequate placental perfusion. Broad spectrum assays which measure a range of thrombin/fibrin formation in serum have become an established means of identifying activation of blood coagulation and/or fibrinolysis. There is considerable interest in the application of these assays to the diagnosis of other hypercoagulable states, such as thrombophilia during pregnancy. We investigated coagulation/fibrinolysis parameters for significant differences between pregnant women during their gestation (first, second and third trimester) with or without pregnancy loss and healthy nonpregnant women.Thirty-nine pregnant women, aged 24-39 years, were studied. They were subdivided according to pregnancy trimester: 15 patients in the first trimester 13 in the second and 11 in the third. The selection of patients was carried out in cooperation with the Transfusion Center of the Second University of Naples in order to obtain a homogeneous sample group. The control group included 400 healthy patients. Biochemical and blood coagulation tests were performed for each patient and the results obtained were compared with the control group.A decrease in free protein S (PS) and fibrinolysis (t-PA/PAI-1) activities and an increase in Factor VII, Factor VIII, prothrombin fragment 1+2 (F1+2), D-dimer (D-dimer) were observed in pregnant women during the follow-up of gestation. However, there were statistical differences between the groups of women with one or more pregnancy loss where it was found the lowest values in t-PA and PAI and the highest values in FVII and F1+2. Among subjects with more than one abortion, coagulation/fibrinolysis derangements before the partum were more prominent. A significant association exists between consecutive recurrent abortions and pregnancy complications such as placental abruption, hypertensive disorders and CS. This association persists after controlling for variables considered to coexist with recurrent abortions.These findings suggest that an excessive hypercoagulable state is associated with the termination of pregnancy resulting into a moderate risk for thrombosis during the different trimesters of pregnancy. The follow-up of fibrinolytic markers could represent a useful diagnostic tool for termination of pregnancy.