Acardiac twin fetus with severe hydrops fetalis and bilateral talipes varus deformity. Twin reversed-arterial-perfusion syndrome (TRAPS) is a rare complication of monochorionic twin pregnancies. TRAPS is characterized by the hemodynamic dependence of a "recipient" twin from a "pump" twin. The "recipient" twin exhibits lethal abnormalities, such as acardia and acephaly. Circulatory failure of the normal twin derives from the existence of arterio-arterial and veno-venous anastomoses within the placenta that allow retrograde perfusion of the acardiac twin by blood coming from the normal twin. Acardiac twinning is the most extreme manifestation of the twin-twin transfusion syndrome. This occurs in 1 in 100 monozygotic twin pregnancies and 1 in 35,000 births. We report a case of diamnionic monochorionic female twins in which the acardiac twin demonstrated severe hydrops fetalis and bilateral talipes varus deformity. Cesarean section was performed on a 27-year-old hypertensive gravida 2, para 1 mother for fetal indications at 32 6/7 weeks gestation. The acardiac fetus had a two-vessel umbilical cord measuring 43.5 cm in length and 0.8 cm in diameter. The proximal end inserted into the root of the normal twin's umbilical cord in an acute angle forming a "v" close to the placental disc. Structures rostral to the thorax were absent except for a round mass of flesh with three small buds in place of the head and neck, and bilateral upper extremities. Only the kidneys, right adrenal, small and large intestine, and rudimentary urinary bladder were present. Both feet demonstrated talipes varus deformity. The fetus was severely hydropic. The subcutaneous fat measured 4.5 cm in maximum thickness. The normal twin had a protracted course complicated with respiratory distress syndrome, moderate secundum atrial septal defect with left to right shunt, and thrombocytopenia of prematurity. The baby was eventually discharged after approximately 1 month. At the time of this report, 5 months postpartum, the neonate is growing and developing normally. To our knowledge, this is the first report of severe hydrops fetalis and talipes varus deformity in an acardiac twin.