Management of pregnancy in women with previous left ilio-caval stenting. Ilio-caval stenting now represents the first line treatment for disabling obstructive ilio-caval lesions. Most patients are young women of child-bearing age. We herein report our experience of pregnancy in women who have a history of ilio-caval stenting.From November 1995 to April 2008, 119 patients had ilio-caval stenting for obstructive venous disease in our department. Of these, 62 women were able to become pregnant. When pregnancy occurred, they received preventive treatment with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) from the 3rd month of pregnancy to 1 month after delivery and had to wear elastic stockings. Patients also had to sleep on their right side if possible. They were followed during the pregnancy by duplex scanning at 3, 6, and 8 months, and then 1 month after delivery.Eight pregnancies occurred in 6 patients (mean age 26.5 years) who had a patent self-expanding stent (1 patient had 3 pregnancies). They had stenting for May-Thurner disease in 3 patients, for post-deep venous thrombosis (DVT) left common iliac vein occlusion in 1 patient, and during venous thrombectomy in 2 patients. All stents were self-expanding metallic stents located on the left common iliac vein. One patient had unrelated spontaneous abortion after 2 months of pregnancy. No DVT or symptomatic pulmonary embolism occurred during pregnancy, delivery, or during the postpartum period. Four patients needed cesarean delivery and none had hemorrhagic complications. None of the patients had adverse effects from the treatment. Duplex scan showed compression of the stent(s) at 8 months in 4 patients with inflow obstruction in 3 patients. Postpartum duplex-scan showed no remaining stenosis in all patients. No stents had structural damage.Ilio-caval stent compression can occur during pregnancy but does not lead to structural damage to the self-expanding stents. Despite this, no cases of DVT occurred with preventive LMWH treatment.