Changes in endovascular trophoblast invasion and spiral artery remodelling at term in a transgenic preeclamptic rat model. As a follow-up to our previous study which revealed a surprisingly deeper endovascular trophoblast (ET) invasion on day 18 in a transgenic preeclamptic (PE) rat model (hAngiotensinogen female symbol x hRenin male symbol) compared to non-PE controls, we examined further changes in ET invasion and associated spiral artery (SA) remodelling at term (day 21). PE transgenic rats and non-PE reversely mated (RM) transgenic rats were compared to normal SD rats (C). Sections were stained to visualize trophoblast, fibrinoid, vascular smooth muscle (VSM) and endothelium. SA were evaluated in three depth levels in the mesometrial triangle (MT) using the KS-400 image analysis system. In separate transgenic rats, Doppler ultrasound was performed in uterine arteries, and the resistance indices (RI) were calculated. Although for the whole MT differences in ET invasion were no longer significant between the PE and C, indicating a partial catching up in C rats, there was still significantly more ET in the deepest level in the PE group as compared to the C and RM groups. At the same time the SA walls in PE rats contained significantly more fibrinoid (versus RM and C) and VSM (versus C). In all SA cross-sections, re-endothelialisation was prominent, but significantly different between PE and C group. The Doppler results showed a significantly lower RI in the arcuate uterine artery of the PE group compared to the C group. There was no evidence of elimination of deeply invaded ET at term, previously considered as a possible mechanism for restriction of vascular remodelling in human PE. The differences in vascular remodelling, previously described on day 18 by histology and Doppler data, were maintained on day 21, but there was extensive endothelial repair in the three groups. Atherosis-like lesions were observed in the three groups, most frequently in the RM group, but were never associated with placental infarcts.