Cerebral palsy and perinatal asphyxia (II--Medicolegal implications and prevention). Obstetric litigation is a growing problem in developed countries and its escalating cost together with increasing medical insurance premiums is a major concern for maternity service providers, leading to obstetric practice cessation by many practitioners. Fifty-four to 74 % of claims are based on cardiotocographic (CTG) abnormalities and their interpretation followed by inappropriate or delayed reactions. A critical analysis is performed about the nine criteria identified by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the American Academy of Pediatrics in their task force on Neonatal Encephalopathy and Cerebral Palsy: four essential criteria defining neonatal asphyxia and five other suggesting an acute intrapartum event sufficient to cause cerebral palsy in term newborns. The importance of placental histologic examination is emphasized in order to confirm sudden catastrophic events occurring before or during labor or to detect occult thrombotic processes affecting the fetal circulation, patterns of decreased placenta reserve and adaptative responses to chronic hypoxia. It may also exclude intrapartum hypoxia by revealing some histologic patterns typical of acute chorioamnionitis and fetal inflammatory response or compatible with metabolic diseases. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the infant's damaged brain is very contributive to elucidate the mechanism and timing of asphyxia in conjunction with the clinical picture, by locating cerebral injuries predominantly in white or grey matter. Intrapartum asphyxia is sometimes preventable by delivering weak fetuses by cesarean sections before birth, by avoiding some "sentinel" events, and essentially by responding appropriately to CTG anomalies and performing an efficient neonatal resuscitation. During litigation procedures, it is necessary to have access to a readable CTG, a well-documented partogram, a complete analysis of umbilical cord gases, a placental pathology and an extensive clinical work-up of the newborn infant including cerebral MRI. Malpractice litigation in obstetric care can be reduced by permanent CTG education, respect of national CTG guidelines, use of adjuncts such as fetal blood sampling for pH or lactates, regular review of adverse events in Clinical Risk Management (CRM) groups and periodic audits about low arterial cord pH in newborns, admission to neonatal unit, the need for assisted ventilation and the decision-to-delivery interval for emergency operative deliveries. Considering the fast occurrence of fetal cerebral hypoxic injuries, and thus despite an adequate management, many intrapartum asphyxias will not be preventable. Conversely, well-documented hypoxic-ischemic brain insults during the antenatal period do not automatically exclude intrapartum suboptimal obstetric care.