Foetal hepatic calcification. Thirty-three cases of 1,500 spontaneously-aborted foetuses showed hepatic calcifications. The exact location of these calcifications were confirmed by contrast studies, anatomic dissection, and further histology when necessary. Of them, 18 were calcified hepatic vein thrombi (CHVT), 12 were calcified portal vein thrombi (CPVT), 2 were parenchymal calcifications, and one was mixed. Associated anomalies were high (85% of cases). No significant difference was found between the type and percentage of anomalies of those with CHVT and those with CPVT. The most common anomalies encountered in all cases were meconium intraluminal calcification (27%), cystic hygroma (18%), and metaphyseal defect (18%). In view of this, it is suggested that a variety of severe foetal illnesses predispose to CHVT and CPVT. At correlation with maternal factors, it was found that the highest incidence was in the third decade. A significant high percentage of mothers (33%) had been on contraceptive pills, and there was interesting inverse relationship of hepatic calcification with gravidity. Practically, it is also hoped that the awareness of the presence of various types of hepatic calcifications will help in their detection prenatally by ultrasound.33 cases of 1500 spontaneously aborted fetuses showed hepatic calcifications.  The exact location of these calcifications were confirmed by contrast studies, anatomic dissection, and further histology when appropriate.  Of these, 18 were calcified hepatic vein thrombi (CHVT).  12 were calcified portal vein thrombi (CPVT), 2 were parenchymal calcifications, and 1 was mixed.  Associated anomalies were high (85%) and no significant difference was found between the type and % of anomalies of those with CHVT and those with CPVT.  The most common anomalies encountered in all cases were meconium intraluminal calcification (27%), cystic hygroma (18%), and metaphyseal defect (18%).  In view of this, it is suggested that a variety of severe fetal illnesses predispose to CHVT and CPVT.  At correlation with maternal factors, it was found that the highest incidence was in the 3rd decade.  A significantly high % of mothers (33%) has been taking oral contraceptives and there was interesting inverse relationships between hepatic calcification with gravidity.  Practically, it is also hoped that the awareness of the presence of various types of hepatic calcifications will help in prenatal detection by ultrasound.