Clinical practice guidelines of the Team of Experts of the Polish Gynecological Society: management of the intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy. Intrahepatic Cholestasis of Pregnancy (ICP) constitutes the most common, reversible liver disease closely connected with pregnancy and spontaneously resolving in puerperium. ICP usually reoccurs in consecutive pregnancies (45-90%), often in a more intensified form. Many compounds (hormones, cytokines, medicines, endotoxins) can impair transport in the hepatocyte, disturb the intracellular transport and increase the permeability of the intercellular connections. As a result, the elements of bile may appear in the peripheral blood. Gestational cholestasis constitutes a classic example of intrahepatic cholestasis. The etiology of ICP is multifactorial with hormonal, genetic and environmental factors participating in the process. The diagnosis is based on the presence of pruritus, elevated values of bile acids in the blood serum and of aminotransferases (aspartic, aminopropionic and gamma-glutamylotranspeptydase (AspAt, AlAt, GGTP)), as well as spontaneous remission in the second or third week after childbirth, of lack of other illnesses causing pruritus and icterus. Clinical and biochemical symptoms of ICP include: pruritus without skin rash (usually after 30 weeks of gestation), mild icterus, steatorrhea etc. Abnormalities in the laboratory tests of the LFT (liver function tests) encompass: an increase in the serum concentration of fatty acids (BA) which can be the first and only laboratory abnormality. Concentrations surpassing 10 micromol/l are considered to be abnormal. Concentration of BA higher than 40 micromol/l allows to recognize a case of severe ICP, connected with the risk of premature delivery presence of the meconium liquor, surgical means of delivery and low APGAR score of the newborn (< 7 pt). In about 80% of pregnant women with ICP, the BA concentration ranges between 10-40 micromol/l, but perinatal results are comparable with uncomplicated pregnancies. Some authors are of the opinion that abnormal AlAt value is the most sensitive test, other authors consider the abnormal values of alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin to be the most pathognomonic factors. Other abnormal tests include: higher activity of alpha-hydroxybutyric dehydrogenase correlated with an increase of the alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin mild metabolic acidosis