Prenatal cerebrovascular accidents diagnosed in the early infant stage: a series of 10 patients. INTRODUCTION. A foetal or prenatal cerebrovascular accident (CVA) is defined as an ischaemic, thrombotic or arterial or venous haemorrhagic event that occurs between the 14th week of gestation and the onset of labour. PATIENTS AND METHODS. We report a retrospective study of a series of 10 patients suffering from a, presumably foetal, stroke that went unnoticed during the pregnancy and was diagnosed in the early infant stage. The symptoms and the age at which they were identified are highlighted. RESULTS. None of the 10 patients studied presented any relevant events in the mothers' medical history, but there were four threats of a preterm birth that were solved using the usual means and without the occurrence of any alterations that later affected the foetus. The studies that led to the diagnosis were carried out between the sixth and ninth months of life, and the reason for visiting was reported by the family as being a lower degree of mobility on one side of the body with respect to the other. Two patients presented thrombophilia. With a mean follow-up time of six years, all the patients have an associated infantile cerebral palsy, a third of them have epilepsy and 75% have learning difficulties or intellectual disability. CONCLUSIONS. When CVA are not detected in the prenatal period, it is important in primary care to look for and detect the warning signs of the psychomotor development of the infant at an early stage in order to begin a study of the case and to undertake rehabilitation as early as possible. Accidentes cerebrovasculares prenatales diagnosticados en la etapa de lactante: serie de 10 pacientes.Introduccion. El accidente cerebrovascular (ACV) fetal o prenatal se define como un suceso isquemico, trombotico o hemorragico arterial o venoso que acontece entre las 14 semanas de gestacion y el inicio del parto. Pacientes y metodos. Estudio retrospectivo de una serie de 10 pacientes afectos de un ictus, presumiblemente fetal, desapercibido durante el embarazo y diagnosticado en la etapa de lactante se destacan cuales han sido los sintomas y la edad en que se han identificado. Resultados. De los 10 pacientes estudiados, ninguno presentaba antecedentes maternos relevantes, pero se detectaron cuatro amenazas de parto pretermino que se resolvieron con las medidas habituales y sin hallazgos de alteracion fetal posterior. Entre el segundo y tercer trimestre de vida es cuando se han realizado los estudios que han llevado al diagnostico, y se ha indicado por la familia una menor movilidad de un hemicuerpo respecto al contralateral como motivo de consulta. Dos pacientes presentaban una trombofilia. Con una media de seguimiento de seis años, todos asocian una paralisis cerebral infantil, la tercera parte una epilepsia y el 75% tiene dificultades de aprendizaje o discapacidad intelectual. Conclusion. Cuando los ACV no se detectan prenatalmente, es importante que en la atencion primaria se busquen y detecten los signos de alarma del desarrollo psicomotor del lactante de forma precoz para iniciar su estudio y procurar una rehabilitacion lo mas pronto posible.