Fetal blood sampling. We sought to review indications, technical aspects, risks, and recommendations for fetal blood sampling (FBS).A systematic review was performed using MEDLINE, PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane Library using the terms "fetal blood sampling," "percutaneous umbilical blood sampling," and "cordocentesis." The search was restricted to English-language articles published from 1966 through July 2012. Priority was given to articles reporting original research, in particular randomized controlled trials, although review articles and commentaries also were consulted. Abstracts of research presented at symposia and scientific conferences were not considered adequate for inclusion in this document. Evidence reports and guidelines published by organizations or institutions such as the National Institutes of Health, Agency for Health Research and Quality, American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine were also reviewed, and additional studies were located by reviewing bibliographies of identified articles. Grade (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) methodology was employed for defining strength of recommendations and rating quality of evidence. Consistent with US Preventive Task Force guidelines, references were evaluated for quality based on the highest level of evidence.Ultrasound-guided FBS is the only procedure that provides direct access to the fetal circulation. When invasive testing is planned for suspected severe fetal anemia or thrombocytopenia, we recommend FBS as the procedure of choice, with availability of immediate transfusion if confirmed. We recommend against the use of FBS for indications in which other less invasive, and therefore lower risk, alternatives are available. The overall success rate of FBS is high, and blood samples can be obtained in >98% of patients. We suggest that counseling for FBS include discussion about the potential risk of FBS that may include, but may not be limited to: bleeding from puncture site (20-30%) fetal bradycardia (5-10%)