Pregnancy outcomes in patients with prior uterine rupture or dehiscence. To report obstetric outcomes in a series of women with prior uterine rupture or prior uterine dehiscence managed with a standardized protocol.Series of patients delivered by a single maternal-fetal medicine practice from 2005 to 2013 with a history of uterine rupture or uterine dehiscence. Uterine rupture was defined as a clinically apparent, complete scar separation in labor or before labor. Uterine dehiscence was defined as an incomplete and clinically occult uterine scar separation with intact serosa. Patients with prior uterine rupture were delivered at approximately 36-37 weeks of gestation or earlier in the setting of preterm labor. Patients with prior uterine dehiscence were delivered at 37-39 weeks of gestation based on obstetric history, clinical findings, and ultrasonographic findings. Patients with prior uterine rupture or uterine dehiscence were followed with serial ultrasound scans to assess fetal growth and lower uterine segment integrity. Outcomes measured were severe morbidities (uterine rupture, hysterectomy, transfusion, cystotomy, bowel injury, mechanical ventilation, intensive care unit admission, thrombosis, reoperation, maternal death, perinatal death).Fourteen women (20 pregnancies) had prior uterine rupture and 30 women (40 pregnancies) had prior uterine dehiscence. In these 60 pregnancies, there was 0% severe morbidity noted (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.0-6.0%). Overall, 6.7% of patients had a uterine dehiscence seen at the time of delivery (95% CI 2.6-15.9%). Among women with prior uterine rupture, the rate was 5.0% (95% CI 0.9-23.6%), whereas among women with prior uterine dehiscence, the rate was 7.5% (95% CI 2.6-19.9%).Patients with prior uterine rupture or uterine dehiscence can have excellent outcomes in subsequent pregnancies if managed in a standardized manner, including cesarean delivery before the onset of labor or immediately at the onset of spontaneous preterm labor.