Hepatocellular carcinoma associated with oral contraceptive use and pregnancy. Numerous undesirable side effects have been attributed to oral contraception, from mild breast discomfort to thromboembolism. The authors present a case report of hepatocellular carcinoma associated with oral contraceptive use and pregnancy and discuss the potentially fatal association of malignant liver tumors with usage of oral contraception.The possible association of hepatocellular carcinoma with oral contraceptive (OC) use is supported by the case of a 33-year old black female, gravida 5, para 4.  She presented in April 1978 with right upper quadrant pain, nausea, vomiting, and fatty food intolerance.  The case had been taking norethindrone, 1 mg with mestranol 0.05, for 2 years.  There was no history of liver disease, alcohol abuse, or exposure to chemical toxins.  The preoperative diagnosis was subacute cholecystitis however, an unresectable primary liver tumor of both lobes was detected on surgery.  OC use was discontinued, and the case refused chemotherapy.  On December 1, 1978, she presented with a 9-week pregnancy which was aborted.  Physical examination revealed an enlarged liver and mass in the upper right quadrant.  The patient was readmitted December 11 with intractable pain and discharged.  She died December 28, 1978.  At autopsy the liver tumor appeared as a moderate to poorly differentiated hepatoma with irregular hyperchromatic nuclei.  There was no evidence of coexistent benign lesions.  The rapid progression of the disease following pregnancy suggests that hepatic growth was stimulated by the high estrogen levels of pregnancy.  Earlier diagnosis and improved management are required in such cases.  Ultrasonography can be used to confirm the presence of a mass, and liver scan or hepatic angiogram may be useful.  Liver biopsy is required for definitive diagnosis.  Treatment involves discontinuation of OC use and complete excision of the tumor where possible.  If tumors have progressed beyond the stage of resectability, as in this case, the prognosis is poor.