(18F)-2-fluorodeoxyglucose PET. Prospects for secondary prevention of mouth cavity carcinoma. The predominant cause of death due to oral cancer is the failure to control local tumor due to regional tumor recurrence. The sequelae of surgical resection and high-dose irradiation cause substantial changes in head and neck anatomy, leading to considerable problems in the early morphological detection of recurrent disease. Therefore, this study evaluates the verification of cancer recurrence by means of its pathologic glucose metabolism.We reviewed a total of 50 [18F]-2-fluordeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18FDG-PET) investigations performed in 44 patients who had undergone surgical resection of oral cancer. In 23 cases, re-staging (group A) was indicated due to suspicion of recurrent or secondary tumor manifestation. In 27 cases, PET served as a screening procedure (group B). Statistic evaluation included sensitivity, specificity, positive/negative predictive value and accuracy of 18FDG-PET for the detection of tumor manifestation.18FDG-PET correctly identified 23 of 26 tumor sites (88%) in the re-staging group and 9 of 10 tumor sites (90%) in the screening group. We encountered a total number of 16 false-positive foci with an increased 18FDG-uptake. In six patients, 18FDG-PET detected tumor recurrence several months before a morphological correlative could be identified. In 5 of these 6 patients, the PET findings for the latter tumor sites determined the patient's fate. Specificity was 63% for local recurrence, 97% for secondary lymph node involvement and 90% for distant metastasis.According to these data, 18FDG-PET is the most effective diagnostic tool in the follow-up of oral cancer patients to date. Due to the high prevalence of recurrent disease in the follow-up of oral cancer, either the detection of early recurrence or the identification of additional, incurable tumors may add substantially to a rational therapeutic management. We therefore recommend 18FDG-PET for screening and re-staging of recurrent oral cancer.