Quantitation of regional cerebral blood flow corrected for partial volume effect using O-15 water and PET: II. Normal values and gray matter blood flow response to visual activation. One of the most limiting factors for the accurate quantification of physiologic parameters with positron emission tomography (PET) is the partial volume effect (PVE). To assess the magnitude of this contribution to the measurement of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), the authors have formulated four kinetic models each including a parameter defining the perfusable tissue fraction (PTF). The four kinetic models used were 2 one-tissue compartment models with (Model A) and without (Model B) a vascular term and 2 two-tissue compartment models with fixed (Model C) or variable (Model D) white matter flow. Furthermore, rCBF based on the autoradiographic method was measured. The goals of the study were to determine the following in normal humans: (1) the optimal model, (2) the optimal length of fit, (3) the model parameters and their reproducibility, and (4) the effects of data acquisition (2D or 3D). Furthermore, the authors wanted to measure the activation response in the occipital gray matter compartment, and in doing so test the stability of the PTF, during perturbations of rCBF induced by visual stimulation. Eight dynamic PET scans were acquired per subject (n = 8), each for a duration of 6 minutes after IV bolus injection of H2(15)O. Four of these scans were performed using 2D and four using 3D acquisition. Visual stimulation was presented in four scans, and four scans were during rest. Model C was found optimal based on Akaike's Information Criteria (AIC) and had the smallest coefficient of variance after a 6-minute length of fit. Using this model the average PVE corrected rCBF during rest in gray matter was 1.07 mL x min(-1) x g(-1) (0.11 SD), with an average coefficient of variance of 6%. Acquisition mode did not affect the estimated parameters, with the exception of a significant increase in the white matter rCBF using the autoradiographic method (2D: 0.17 mL x min(-1) x g(-1) (0.02 SD) 3D: 0.21 mL x min(-1) x g(-1) (0.02 SD)). At a 6-minute fit the average gray matter CBF using Models C and D were increased by 100% to 150% compared with Models A and B and the autoradiographic method. There were no significant changes in the perfusable tissue fraction by the activation induced rCBF increases. The largest activation response was found using Model C (median = 39.1%). The current study clearly demonstrates the importance of PVE correction in the quantitation of rCBF in normal humans. The potential use of this method is to cost-effectively deliver PVE corrected measures of rCBF and tissue volumes without reference to imaging modalities other than PET.