Incidence of major cardiovascular events in black patients with normal myocardial stress perfusion study results. Previous studies have shown that the risk of major cardiovascular events at 1 year is less than 1% in patients with normal myocardial stress perfusion study results. However, the racial distribution of patients enrolled in these studies is not known. Hence, the prognostic value of normal stress perfusion study results in black patients is not well established. Our objective was to determine the incidence of major cardiovascular events in black patients with normal stress perfusion study results over a 12-month period.We searched the nuclear cardiology database at our institution for all black patients who had normal stress perfusion study results between January 1990 and December 1996. We excluded patients with a history of coronary revascularization, valvular heart disease, cardiomyopathy, congenital heart disease, left bundle branch block, or pre-excitation syndrome. Patients were followed up for at least 12 months from the time of inclusion. A total of 592 patients were enrolled and were followed up for 18 +/- 6 months (mean +/- SD). Of these, 388 underwent treadmill exercise testing, 155 underwent dipyridamole stress testing, and the remainder underwent dobutamine stress testing. Perfusion studies were performed in all patients with thallium 201 single photon emission computed tomography imaging. During the follow-up period, 11 cardiac deaths and 7 myocardial infarctions (MIs) occurred. The incidence of cardiac deaths was 1.2% per year, and that of nonfatal MIs was 0.8% per year. The total incidence of major cardiovascular events was 2% per year. In patients who underwent treadmill exercise testing, the incidence of major cardiovascular events was 1% per year. Performance of a pharmacologic stress test and a prior MI were significantly associated with death or nonfatal MI (P <.05).The overall incidence of major cardiovascular events in black patients after normal exercise perfusion study results were obtained was low (1%). However, black patients who had normal perfusion study results but underwent pharmacologic stress testing or had a history of MI were at intermediate risk. These patients require close surveillance for major cardiovascular events.