Impact of impaired coronary flow reserve and insulin resistance on myocardial energy metabolism in patients with syndrome X. To evaluate the role of a decreased coronary flow reserve in the genesis of angina pectoris in patients with syndrome X, we studied myocardial hemodynamics and metabolism at rest, during pace stress, and in the recovery period after pacing in 18 consecutive patients with syndrome X and in 10 control subjects. By means of positron emission tomography or the intracoronary flow-wire method, patients were subclassified as having microvascular angina (MA, n = 8) when coronary flow reserve was reduced (<2.5) or no microvascular angina (non-MA, n = 10) when coronary flow reserve was preserved (> or =2.5). At rest, coronary sinus blood flow was increased in MA patients. During pace stress, coronary sinus blood flow increased by 39 +/- 6% in MA patients versus 67 +/- 12% in non-MA patients and 69 +/- 7% in controls (p <0.05). Patients with non-MA revealed fasting hyperinsulinemia, increased arterial concentration of free fatty acids, and a similar tendency for beta-hydroxybutyrate. Oxygen extraction and carbon dioxide release did not differ between groups. Net myocardial lactate release was not observed in any patient during pace stress and myocardial energy metabolism was preserved in all patients with syndrome X. During pacing, myocardial uptake of free fatty acids and beta-hydroxybutyrate was increased in non-MA patients. Myocardial uptake of free fatty acids correlated positively and myocardial glucose and lactate uptake correlated inversely with arterial concentrations of free fatty acids in all subjects. Metabolic evidence of myocardial ischemia is uncommon in patients with syndrome X, irrespective of a globally reduced coronary flow reserve. Although patients with syndrome X can be subclassified according to presence of a microvascular or a metabolic disorder, angina pectoris and ST-segment depressions coexist with a preserved global myocardial energy efficiency in all patients.