Evaluating the effect of superficial temporal artery to middle cerebral artery bypass on pure motor function using motor activation single photon emission computed tomography. We evaluated and analyzed the effect of superficial temporal artery to middle cerebral artery bypass for internal carotid artery occlusion on pure motor function using motor activation single photon emission computed tomography.Motor activation single photon emission computed tomographic (SPECT) images were obtained for nine patients who had undergone superficial temporal artery to middle cerebral artery anastomosis for symptomatic internal carotid artery occlusion. All motor activation SPECT images using the finger opposition task on the affected side were obtained before bypass surgery and at 1 week, 1 month, and 3 months after bypass surgery. The results of motor activation single photon emission computed tomography were expressed as negative or positive.Before bypass surgery, the resting SPECT images revealed reduction of cerebral blood flow (CBF) on the affected side in all nine patients. The results of motor activation single photon emission computed tomography in three patients were positive. One week after bypass surgery, the results of the resting and motor activation CBF studies did not demonstrate any marked changes. One month after bypass surgery, the resting CBF increased in four patients. The results obtained for two of the patients revealed preoperative positive motor activation. The results of motor activation single photon emission computed tomography obtained for five patients were positive. Three months after bypass surgery, eight patients experienced improvement in the resting CBF, and the results of motor activation single photon emission computed tomography obtained for seven patients were positive. Among these, the results of preoperative motor activation single photon emission tomography obtained for four patients were negative.Superficial temporal artery to middle cerebral artery bypass is useful not only for resting CBF but also for pure motor function based on motor activation SPECT images. From the preoperative motor activation study, it was concluded that patients with preoperative positive motor activation could attain the effect of bypass earlier than patients with preoperative negative motor activation.