Antibodies against ox-LDL serum levels in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a malignancy with high incidence worldwide. The related cachexia is induced by proinflammatory cytokines, responsible for a wide number of metabolic disorders, essentially including lipidic and oxidative metabolism. Oxidized LDL (ox-LDL), produced by LDL-cholesterol oxidation, are one of the risk factors for atheromatosis. Also, ox-LDL act on the deliverance of some cytokines involved in the development and progression of a lot of human tumours. The removal of ox-LDL from the blood is performed by the liver. The intracellular amount of ox-LDL, through various cytokines, might induce HCC by reduction of the apoptotic mechanism of protection. Our aim was to evaluate the behaviour of serum antibodies against ox-LDL levels in order to study their possible changes and influences on a study series composed of HCC patients.We enrolled 41 patients (29 males, mean age 67.45+/-8.28 years and 12 females, mean age 64.62+/-7.2 years) with primitive HCC and 30 healthy control subjects (15 males and 15 females, mean age 61.86+/-2.51 years). Diagnosis of HCC was performed on the basis of clinical, laboratory and instrumental findings (Ultrasonography, Computed Tomography and Magnetic Nuclear Resonance, liver biopsy). Of the 41 HCC patients, 30 were affected by hepatitis C virus (HCV), 5 were HBsAg and HBcAg positive and 6 virus B and C negative but consumers of more than 150 g/day of alcohol. Liver biopsy confirmed the presence of HCC derived from cirrhosis in 10 of HCV positive patients, as well as in the patients with high alcohol consumption. Serum IgG antibodies versus the ox-LDL levels have been evaluated by ELISA method and oLAB reactive by Biomedica-Austria. Data have been analysed by 2 tailed Student's "t" test and a value of p<0.05 was considered significant.Lipid pattern values were within the normal ranges except for the Lp(a), that presented low serum levels in both groups. Twenty-five patients presented HCC as well as severe chronic active hepatitis. Serum mean levels of ox-LDL antibodies (ox-LDL Ab), still being within the normal ranges, were significantly lower than in control subjects (p<0.001) in both sexes.We hypothesize that the lower ox-LDL Ab serum levels in our HCC patients may be related to the smaller feeding of HCC patients or to the greater uptake of these modified lipoproteins by the hepatic reticular endothelial system. This phenomenon might result especially in the release of cytokines and growth factors for hepatocytes that may induce HCC development and progression.