Renal duplex Doppler ultrasound in patients with HCV related liver cirrhosis. To study the renal resistive index (RI) and pulsatility index (PI) measured by renal Doppler in various stages of liver cirrhosis and their values to detect cirrhotic patients at risk for developing the hepatorenal syndrome.This study included 60 cirrhotic patients divided into 4 groups (15 patients each): compensated liver cirrhosis (group A), diuretic responsive ascites (group B), refractory ascites (group C), hepatorenal syndrome (group D) and ten healthy persons as the control group (E). All patients were subjected to detailed history taking and clinical examination. Laboratory investigations included simple urine analysis, complete blood picture, liver function tests, blood urea and serum creatinine, serum sodium and serum potassium, 24-hour urine collection for sodium concentration, creatinine concentration and protein concentration. Ultrasonographic examination and renal duplex Doppler ultrasonography were undertaken to assess the RI and PI.The RI of both interlobar and arcuate arteries was significantly higher in all patient groups than in the control group (p<0.01). The RI was significantly higher in patients with refractory ascites than in patients with diuretic responsive ascites, and also in patients with diuretic responsive ascites than in patients with compensated cirrhosis (p<0.01) in patients with hepatorenal syndrome than in patients with diuretic responsive ascites and patients with compensated cirrhosis (p<0.0001). The PI was significantly higher in all patients groups than in the control group (p<0.01) and in patients with refractory ascites than in patients with diuretic responsive ascites and was also higher in patients with responsive ascites than in patients with compensated cirrhosis (p<0.0001). Also, the PI was significantly higher in patients with hepatorenal syndrome than in patients with responsive ascites and patients with compensated cirrhosis (p<0.0001). Creatinine clearance in patients with the hepatorenal syndrome was significantly lower than that of other different groups (p<0.0001) but there was no significant change in creatinine clearance between patients with compensated cirrhosis and control group. While creatinine clearance in patients with diuretic responsive ascites was significantly higher than that in patients with compensated cirrhosis (p<0.05) there was no significant change between patients with diuretic responsive ascites and patients with refractory ascites.Both renal resistive index and pulsatility index increase with the degree of hepatic decompensation. Renal duplex ultrasound which is a non-invasive, simple and easy method to study intrarenal hemodynamics in patients with liver cirrhosis may predict patients at risk of hepatorenal impairment.