Preoperative S-1/CDDP combination chemotherapy was effective in a case of local advanced gastric cancer. The prognosis of type 4 advanced gastric cancer is extremely poor, even the use of multidisciplinary treatment cannot provide satisfactory results. Presented here is a case of highly advanced gastric cancer in which preoperative chemotherapy was effective and resection possible.A 64-year-old female complained of epigastric distress. Current medical history included: hypertension, hyperlipemia, diabetes, chronic heart disease and development of epigastric distress. Endoscopy was performed upon examination in the Gastroenterology Department. Visual inspection showed a lesion extending from the greater curvature of the fundus to the antrum. Type 4 advanced gastric cancer was strongly suspected. Biopsy samples taken from the antral lesser curvature and from the ulcer border on the upper anterior wall of the body were diagnosed as Group V, adenocarcinoma. Abdominal CT revealed no hepatic mass, but overall thickening of the gastric wall was noticeable and the lymph nodes in the area of the lesser curvature of the stomach and celiac artery were identified. Abdominal ultrasound showed an overall thickening of the gastric wall, and invasion into a portion of the left hepatic lobe and pancreas was suspected. Swelling of the lymph nodes surrounding the stomach was suspected.Because of gastric cancer with suspected invasion of the left hepatic lobe and pancreas, it was decided to perform preoperative chemotherapy (S-1 + CDDP) and then perform a total gastrectomy. Four courses were performed.Endoscopy revealed no change in the lesion within the stomach. Only scarring in the body and antrum was found, the enlargement was greatly reduced and visual inspection revealed no esophageal infiltration. Biopsy samples were taken from 2 sites, the body center on the lesser curvature side and the greater curvature of the antrum. Scar-like fibrosis was significant and it was not possible to distinguish an increase in poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. Abdominal CT showed a reduction in gastric wall thickening. These findings showed preoperative chemotherapy to be effective. Following the chemotherapy, a total gastrectomy in addition to splenectomy and cholecystectomy were performed. Histopathological findings showed MLU, type 5, approx. 8.5 × 13 cm, poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma (por 2), INF γ, sci, pT2 (SS), ly2, v0, pN2 (#1: 2/8, #6: 1/6, #11p: 2/5), pPM (-), pDM (-), Stage IIIA. Along with the formation of fibrous scar tissue, an invasive growth of por 2 poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma was found from the submucosal layer to just beneath the serosal layer. Therapeutic effect of the chemotherapy was Grade 2. Post operative S-1 + CDDP was begun but nausea developed and S-1 was reduced. Because of a decrease of neutrophils and nausea, the therapy was changed to UFT. It is currently 6 months after surgery and there are no signs of recurrence.Preoperative chemotherapy (S-1 + CDDP) is a therapy which shows promise in reducing tumor size even in highly advanced gastric cancer.