Experience with ronkoleukin and alfaferon combination in complex chronic hepatitis C treatment. clarify the use in the treatment of CHC patients with cytopenia alternative treatment regimens, including leukocyte interferon alpha-alfaferon with ribavirin in combination with immuno-oriented roncoleukin with contraindications to the use of recombinant interferon alpha.CHC patients with genotype 1b and high viral load, fibrosis of the liver with symptoms dissplenizma manifesting secondary leuco-and/or thrombotic syndrome tsitopenicheskim. Diagnosis of CHC was verified on the basis of clinical, epidemiological, serological and molecular biology (RNA HCV) data. Stage of fibrosis was diagnosed on the basis of ultrasound in combination with dopplerography vessels of the abdominal cavity. As antiviral therapy (OEM) used a combination of drugs "Alfaferon (WBC) with ribavirin depending on body weight and Ronkoleykin" within 12 months. Statistical treatment was performed in the environment of SPSS 11.5.When analyzing the results of the dynamic of clinical and laboratory (including immunological) survey during the observation period (12 months) the patients of the first group have got the positive dynamics of clinical manifestations, disappearance or significant reduction of the severity of astenovegetative and dyspeptic syndromes, reduction of the size of the liver, improvement of the liver function indicators (biochemical response), improvement of the parameters of cellular immunity, reduction of the viral load (virologic response).1. CHC patients with contraindications for causal treatment of "standard" forms of recombinant interferon-alpha, using as an OEM combination of drugs "Alfaferon (WBC) with ribavirin depending on body weight and immune-based drug" Ronkoleykin "has a positive impact on clinical manifestations, biochemical parameters of the liver (biochemical response), reduces the amount of RNA HCV in the serum (direct virologic response). 2. Registered with the decrease in the imbalance of cellular immunity (CD3, CD4, CD8, CD16) factors characterizes the substitution of immuno-restoration operation of the proposed treatment regimen. 3. This specific combination of drugs "Alfaferon with ribavirin and Ronkoleykin" inside - is well tolerated, side effects have not been reported.