Effect of posture-induced blood volume expansion on systemic and regional hemodynamics in patients with cirrhosis. This study aimed to investigate the effects of posture-induced blood volume expansion on systemic and regional hemodynamics in patients with cirrhosis.The mean arterial pressure, cardiac index, peripheral vascular resistance index, and flow volume index of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) and femoral artery (FA) were measured in 10 patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension and 10 controls after they had been standing for 2 h. Plasma atrial natriuretic peptide, plasma renin activity, and plasma glucagon levels were also determined. These measurements were repeated after 30 min and 60 min when the patients were recumbent.In the upright posture, systemic hemodynamics, FA blood flow index, plasma atrial natriuretic peptide level, and plasma renin activity level were similar in patients and controls. However, SMA blood flow index and plasma glucagon level were significantly higher in patients than in controls. On the assumption of the supine position, cardiac index and plasma atrial natriuretic peptide level significantly increased in the two groups, but the changes were greater in patients than in controls. Mean arterial pressure remained unchanged. The reduction in peripheral vascular resistance index was therefore greater in patients in controls. SMA and FA blood flow index increased significantly in the two groups, but the changes were greater in patients than in controls. Furthermore, SMA blood flow fraction (SMA blood flow index/cardiac index) was steady in controls, whereas it increased significantly in patients. In contrast, FA blood flow fraction (FA blood flow index/cardiac index) remained unchanged in the two groups. In patients, the change in peripheral vascular resistance index was correlated inversely with that of SMA blood flow index, but not with that of FA blood flow index. Plasma renin activity level dropped significantly, but the decline was similar in the two groups. Plasma glucagon level was not modified in either group.In patients with cirrhosis, splanchnic vasodilation appears to be present, even in the upright position, and further abnormal vasodilation occurs on recumbency-induced blood volume expansion. This abnormal shear-stress phenomenon observed in the splanchnic circulation seems to be mediated by a local vasodilator rather than a general vasodilator.