What is the association of primary sclerosing cholangitis with sex and inflammatory bowel disease in Turkish patients? In the Western world, primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a chronic cholestatic liver disease that is associated with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), particularly chronic ulcerative colitis and, to a lesser degree, Crohn's disease. The goal of this study was to determine the prevalence of PSC in Turkish patients with IBD and chronic amebic colitis, a disease that is endemic in Turkey.During a 10-year period, between 1986 and 1996, a total of 81 IBD (64 ulcerative colitis and 17 Crohn's disease) patients and 127 patients with chronic amebic colitis were seen and evaluated with radiologic, serologic, immunologic and pathologic tests. Whenever a clinical or biochemical finding suggested the presence of co-existent hepatic and/or biliary disease, the patient was further evaluated by liver biopsy, auto-antibodies and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) to determine whether they also had PSC or some other form of liver disease. As a disease control group, a total of 752 patients with clinical and/or laboratory evidence of pancreaticobiliary disease were also studied. In 86 of these 752 patients (10%), a primary disorder of the biliary tree was diagnosed by ultrasonography, computed tomography, peritoneoscopy, liver biopsy, ERCP and abdominal laparotomy. In addition, all 86 patients of the control group were evaluated endoscopically in order to determine whether they had any associated gastrointestinal condition of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tracts. After establishing final diagnoses of IBD, amebic colitis and PSC, these patients were evaluated with respect to their socio-economic status. A high protein diet (1.8 gram/kg/day) was administered to those patients with chronic amebic colitis and IBD during the active period of the disease.Of the 208 patients (81 with IBD and 127 with chronic amebic colitis), no cases of PSC were identified. Of the 86 patients in the control group with primary biliary tract disease, 45 had a biliary system malignancy, 14 had primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), 16 had PSC, 3 had Caroli's disease, 6 had a common bile duct cyst, and 2 had gallbladder adenomatosis. All but 1 of the 16 patients with PSC were female.These data suggest that, in contrast to findings in Western Europe and the USA, in Turkey: 1) PSC is not regularly associated with idiopathic IBD 2) most patients with PSC are female