Determination of cervicovaginal microorganisms in women with abnormal cervical cytology: the role of Ureaplasma urealyticum. To evaluate the existence of an association between cervicovaginal infections and precancerous lesions of the uterine cervix, through determination of prevalent cervicovaginal micro-organisms, alone and in association with human papillomavirus (HPV), in patients with abnormal and normal vaginal cytology.Patients with abnormal vaginal cytology were divided into three study groups according to cytological findings: ASC-US, L-SIL and H-SIL. All patients underwent colposcopic examination and exoendocervical and vaginal sampling for microbiological and molecular analysis for detection of HPV-DNA, Ureaplasma urealyticum, Chlamydia trachomatis, Trichomonas vaginalis, mycetes and common bacteria. Results were compared with the patient group asymptomatic for cervicovaginal inflammation with negative vaginal cytology and colposcopy.A high association between Ureaplasma urealyticum infection and the grade of cytological cervical lesion (27% for ASC-US, 35% for L-SIL and 45% for H-SIL) was found. Furthermore, 19% of the control group samplings were positive for Ureaplasma urealyticum, significantly less than that observed in the positive cytology groups. An interesting association of HPV with Ureaplasma urealyticum in patients with H-SIL vaginal cytology (83%), much higher than that observed in patients with slightly abnormal or normal vaginal cytology (56% for ASC-US, 49% for L-SIL, 40% for normal cytology) was also identified. In contrast, the association between Papillomavirus and multiple microorganisms seemed to decrease with the level of cellular dysplasia in 30% of controls, 33% of ASC-US, 32% of L-SIL and 17% of H-SIL.The presence of a high Ureaplasma urealyticum level seems to be a cofactor of HPV infection, a necessary cause of precancerous lesions of the uterine cervix. The presence of Ureaplasma urealyticum may play a role both in initiating viral cellular anomalies and in viral persistence. It can be hypothesized that these initial processes are helped by a state of cervical inflammation, also supported by multiple microorganisms. It would, thus, be suggested for all patients who present with an abnormal PAP test to undergo a cervicovaginal microbiological examination to detect potentially pathogenic microbes for correct diagnosis and treatment, as well as a more complete follow-up of cervical cytological lesions.