Follow up of atypical squamous cell Pap smears in Iraqi women. To report the prevalence of atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance and atypical squamous cells-cannot exclude high squamous intraepithelial lesion and to determine the possible association of Pap test results with high-risk human papillomavirus and high squamous intraepithelial lesions in women from Duhok, Iraq.A prospective, observational study was conducted between January 2005 and December 2011. Overall, 596 women with a cervicovaginal Pap test showing atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance and 93 atypical squamous cells-cannot exclude high squamous intraepithelial lesion for whom pathologic follow-up was available were studied. Follow-up consisted of repeat cytology, colposcopy and histology. High risk human papillomavirus DNA testing was performed on exfoliated cervical cells from 106 women, using conventional PCR after at least 36 months from the initial Pap smear.Significantly high proportions of both atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (87.9%) and atypical squamous cells-cannot exclude high squamous intraepithelial lesion (62.4%) demonstrated no significant lesion on subsequent follow up. Low squamous intraepithelial lesions were observed in 1.7% of cases of atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance and in 5.4% of atypical squamous cells-cannot exclude high squamous intraepithelial lesion. High squamous intraepithelial lesion was demonstrated in 0.8% and 16.1% respectively. In the latter there was also one case of invasive carcinoma. High-risk HPV DNA was demonstrated in 40% of atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance and 57.1% of atypical squamous cells-cannot exclude high squamous intraepithelial lesions.Since both atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance and atypical squamous cells-cannot exclude high squamous intraepithelial lesion identify patients who are at an increased risk for the development of high squamous intraepithelial lesions and a considerable percentage harbor high risk-HPV, both should be retained as diagnostic categories and patients warrant a diligent follow up and testing for high risk-HPV DNA. Colposcopic evaluation and biopsy, when indicated, are a must.