Short communication: genital tumor growth factor-β1 levels in HIV-infected Indian women are associated with reduced levels of innate antimicrobial products and increased HIV shedding. Tumor growth factor (TGF)-β1 is a cytokine with potent immunoinhibitory functions and is known to be secreted by vaginal epithelial cells. The present study was designed to determine the association of cervicovaginal levels of TGF- β1 with various innate immune secretions such as cytokines and antimicrobial polypeptides [Trappin-2/Elafin and secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor (SLPI)] and cervical HIV shedding in HIV-infected Indian women. TGF- β1, antimicrobial polypeptides, and cytokine levels were estimated in the cervicovaginal lavages (CVLs) of 36 age-matched HIV-infected and 31 HIV-uninfected asymptomatic Indian women using an ELISA and Bio-Plex Assay, respectively. The nonparametric Mann-Whitney test and Spearman's test were used to compare the levels from both the groups and to determine the association of the TGF-β1 levels with cervical viral shedding and antimicrobial peptides. The levels of Trappin-2/Elafin and SLPI were similar in the CVLs of HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected women, but were significantly associated with a low cervical viral load (r=-0.501, p=0.005 for Trappin-2/Elafin and r=-0.488, p=0.007 for SLPI). Eleven (30.5%) of the 36 HIV-infected women showed 5- to 30-fold higher levels of TGF-β1 as compared to the levels in uninfected women. The TGF-β1 levels were significantly associated with higher cervical viral load (r=0.425, p=0.03) and with lower levels of Trappin-2/Elafin (r=-0.407, p=0.03) and SLPI (r=-0.405, p=0.04). The findings indicate a possible interdependent mechanism driving the identified higher TGF-β1 and lower antimicrobial peptide (Trappin-2/Elafin and SLPI) levels at the genital mucosa surface in HIV-infected women. We postulate that a combination of increased TGF-β1 secretion and altered levels of Trappin-2/Elafin and SLPI contributes to increased HIV shedding. The observation warrants further studies to identify the underlying mechanisms linking increased mucosal TGF-β1 levels and genital HIV shedding. Considering the known association of HIV and cervical cancers, it will also be important to assess the predictive capacity of TGF-β1 levels in HIV-associated cervical malignancies.