Sexual profile of women with cervical cytology in a first level unit. The sexual profile of women shapes a set of components that interact and play a fundamental role in the onset of human papillomavirus (HPV) or cervical cancer. The objective was to establish the sexual profile of women who underwent cervical cytology in a first level unit of the Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social from Estado de México, México.We studied women attending for cytological detection of malignant tumor in cervix. We interviewed them in order to obtain sociodemographic, gynecologic and obstetrical histories. Statistical analysis was made using Fisher's exact test, Mantel-Haenszel chi squared test, and Spearman correlation.There were 299 women 67.56 % reported having only one sexual partner. The tendency of infection by HPV fell discretely as the age increased. Women with more than one sexual partner were at greater risk for developing some type of cervical neoplasia (OR = 1.016, CI 95 % = 0.6069-1.7, p = 0.953).It was a diverse group, a source of richness and plurality, but also of challenges. Therefore, it requires more work regarding sex education. Young women frequently present determining factors related to HPV and the development of cervical neoplasia.INTRODUCCIÓN: el perfil sexual de las mujeres conforma un conjunto de componentes que juega un papel fundamental en la aparición del virus del papiloma humano (VPH) o del cáncer cervicouterino (CACU). Se buscó determinar el perfil sexual de un grupo de mujeres con citología cervical en una unidad de primer nivel del Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social del Estado de México. MÉTODOS: se estudiaron mujeres que acudieron para detección citológica de tumor maligno del cuello uterino. Se les entrevistó para obtener características sociodemográficas y ginecoobstétricas. El análisis estadístico se hizo con prueba exacta de Fisher, chi cuadrada de Mantel-Haenszel, y correlación de Spearman.fueron 299 mujeres 67.56 % solo tenía una pareja sexual. La tendencia de infección por VPH descendió discretamente conforme se incrementó la edad. Las mujeres con más de una pareja sexual presentaron un riesgo mayor para desarrollar algún tipo de neoplasia intracervical (RM = 1.016, IC 95 % = 0.6069-1.7, p = 0.953).se trató de un grupo heterogéneo, que constituye una fuente de riqueza y pluralidad, pero también de retos y desafíos, pues se requiere una mayor labor de educación sexual. Las mujeres jóvenes presentan con mayor frecuencia determinantes relacionados con infección por VPH y con el desarrollo de neoplasia intracervical.