Preliminary report of unexpected local reactions to a progestogen-releasing contraceptive vaginal ring. This is the first report of vaginal erythematous areas associated with the use of a levonorgestrel-releasing contraceptive ring. Of 139 female subjects, 48 developed lesions of varying size and degrees of redness. Sixteen of these have undergone serial colposcopy and thirteen have also had biopsy examinations, which revealed acetowhite areas and, histologically, chronic inflammation with widely dilated vessels and frequently with thinning of the epithelium. The cause remains uncertain but hormonal, chemical and physical effects might all have a role.Between August 1990 and May 1992 in London, England, researchers enrolled 139 women aged 18-40 years in a clinical trial of a levonorgestrel-releasing contraceptive vaginal ring.  All the women had a negative cervical smear.  They underwent a thorough initial gynecological examination (i.e., visualization of entire vaginal area and the cervix).  Clinicians reexamined them at 6 weeks, 3 months, and a 3-month intervals thereafter.  48 women (34.5%) had erythematous lesions on at least 1 occasion.  They were at the vaginal vault, and sometimes on the cervix, where the vaginal ring usually lies.  Most women had no symptoms.  All the women were unaware that they had lesions.  The lesions disappeared spontaneously in 16 women (33.3%) with the vaginal ring still in place.  During colposcopy with vaginal ring in place, a clinician took vaginal/cervical swabs in 16 women to test for common sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).  All but 1 woman tested negative for STDs.  The erythematous lesion responded to 5% acetic acid in 14 of the 16 women, indicating an abnormality.  Clinicians took biopsies in 13 of these women and did repeat colposcopy at 3-4 week intervals. Histological examination showed congestion with considerable dilated vessels, chronic inflammatory changes of varying severity, and frequent intracellular edema of the squamous mucosa.  The mucosa was abnormally thin in some women, while in others it was entirely missing.  Changes in 4 women were caused by HPV.  1 woman had grade 1 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN).  The researchers could not conclude that the HPV-induced changes or CIN occurred during vaginal use because the women were not colposcoped before entry into the study.  All of the study's findings prompted the ethics committee to halt the study in May 1992.  In July 1992, the manufacturer shut down the entire UK study, stating that accumulation of enough data on efficacy and acceptability had been achieved.  Further research is needed to determine what caused the lesions.