The continuous performance test, identical pairs version (CPT-IP): III. Brain functioning during performance of numbers and shapes subtasks. The numbers and shapes subtasks of the CPT-IP are difficulty-matched measures of independent aspects of attentional skill that have been used to differentiate the impairments of schizophrenics and major depressives. Previous studies suggest that they tap into lateralized aspects of attentional performance. To investigate this hypothesis, seven subjects free of psychiatric illness were presented with these CPT-IP subtasks during a SPECT procedure. Subtasks--4-digit number strings and nonsense shapes--were administered on successive weeks, in counterbalanced order, simultaneous with administration of 10 mCi 99mTc HMPAO. Scanning took place after 10 min of test performance. Quantitative data were extracted from each scan via a semi-automated region of interest (ROI) analysis which defined eight cortical and four subcortical ROI on each of five transverse slices. Data for each ROI were normalized and compared between task conditions. Results indicate that the two tasks produce different patterns of functioning within two general areas of the brain. First, during Numbers task performance, left-sided activity was increased on multiple transverse slices in an anterior subcortical region that incorporated the anterior cingulate, frontal white matter, and much of the basal ganglia. Left-sided activity was also increased in a posterior subcortical region including the left side of the thalamus. Lateralization of function, defined as relative activity on the left and right sides, changed within these regions across tasks, but primarily as a result of the contribution of increased or decreased activity on the left side alone. Second, relative perfusion to occipital regions, bilaterally, was more extensive during the Shapes task. These results suggest that subtle alterations in stimulus parameters can affect activation patterns in regions that are critically associated with task performance. They also suggest that the Numbers task may provide more robust activation of anterior attention systems, that may better discriminate the functioning of these systems in normal and psychopathological groups.