Neuroimaging in bipolar disorder: what have we learned? New technologies are offering increasingly powerful means to obtain structural, chemical, and functional images of the brain during life, often without the use of ionizing radiation. Bipolar disorder, with its clear physiologic features, would appear to be a prime candidate for the application of current brain imaging however, only a modest number of studies have been reported to date, and most studies have small sample sizes and heterogeneous subject groups. Nonetheless, there are a few consistent findings among these studies, including the following: 1) Structural imaging studies suggest an increased number of white matter hyperintensities in patients with bipolar disorder. These may be lesions unique to bipolar disorder and its treatment, or related to cardiovascular risk factors, which are more common in bipolar patients. Decreased cerebellar size and anomalies of cerebellar blood volume have also been reported. Increased sulcal prominence and enlargement of the lateral and third ventricles are less consistently observed findings. 2) Spectroscopic imaging suggests abnormalities of metabolism of choline-containing compounds in symptomatically ill bipolar patients and, possibly, treatment-induced changes in choline- and myoinositol-containing compounds. Each of these groups of metabolites serves as a component of membrane phospholipids and cellular second-messenger cycles. 3) Metabolic and blood flow studies provide evidence for decreased activity of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in bipolar patients during depression. It is not clear if these changes are restricted to particular subregions of the PFC, nor if they are reversed with mania. No single pathophysiologic mechanism yet explains these findings, although all might be due to regional alterations in cellular activity and metabolism or changes in cell membrane composition and turnover. The development of imaging technologies has far outpaced their use in bipolar disorder. The promise of future studies is great, with more powerful magnetic resonance scanners, additional ligands for positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography imaging, and improved image generation and processing already available.