A protein kinase C inhibitor, staurosporine, activates phospholipase D via a pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding protein in rabbit peritoneal neutrophils. In rabbit peritoneal neutrophils prelabeled with [3H] lyso platelet-activating factor, a protein kinase C inhibitor, staurosporine (> 1 microM), increased [3H]phosphatidylethanol ([3H]PEt) level in the presence of ethanol in a concentration- and time-dependent manner, providing evidence for staurosporine activation of phospholipase D (PLD). The staurosporine activation of the enzyme absolutely required both extracellular calcium and cytochalasin B, and was almost completely inhibited by pretreatment of the cells with pertussis toxin (IAP). In a reconstituted system where the purified Gi1 had been incorporated into phospholipid vesicles, staurosporine activated GTPase activity of Gi1 in a concentration-dependent fashion, with a maximal 4-5-fold effect. ADP-ribosylation by IAP of Gi1 in vesicles significantly suppressed the staurosporine activation. As with the GTPase activity of Gi1, GTPase activities of other purified IAP-sensitive G proteins, such as Gi2 and G(o), were significantly stimulated by staurosporine, but the cholera toxin substrate Gs was appreciably less sensitive to the staurosporine stimulation. The staurosporine activation of GTPase was also observed in rabbit neutrophil membranes from control cells, but not in membranes from IAP-treated neutrophils. From these results, we conclude that the staurosporine activation of PLD in rabbit neutrophils is attributed to the direct activation of an IAP-sensitive G protein in a similar manner to receptors occupied by agonists. By contrast, staurosporine failed to activate phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C (PI-PLC) under the conditions in which it activated PLD, indicating that there exists a PLD activation pathway independent of PI-PLC. Furthermore, it was found that N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase release from the granules of intact neutrophils was evoked by staurosporine to almost the same extent as by fMLP (100 nM), but O2- generation was not affected. These results suggest a possibility that PLD pathway plays an important role in enzyme release, but is not sufficient for O2- generation, in rabbit peritoneal neutrophils.