Pathology of the thalamus and schizophrenia--an overview. Since the beginning of the 20 (th) century, the thalamus was regarded as a brain region which may be involved in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Distinct thalamic nuclei were morphologically analyzed with qualitative methods with an emphasis on the mediodorsal nucleus. However, the reported results were inconsistent. After the introduction of quantitative neuroanatomical methods, it became obvious that the volume and cell reductions are not only present in the association nuclei, but also in the limbic (N. anteroventralis) and motor thalamic nuclei (N. ventrolateralis posterior). The involvement of distinct thalamic nuclei is supported by structural MRI studies which have shown a moderate but significant volume reduction of the whole thalamus in this disease. The majority of fMRI and PET studies reported a reduction of the metabolic activity or blood flow in the thalamus in patients with schizophrenia. The similarity between the structural changes in animal models of thalamic plasticity and the structural thalamic alterations in schizophrenia suggest an involvement of neuroplasticity mechanisms in the pathogenesis of these alterations. Post-mortem studies and In-vivo receptor studies suggest altered glutamatergic, dopaminergic and membrane-associated mechanisms within thalamic pathology in schizophrenia. On the psychopathological level, there is a similarity between some of the psychic manifestations of thalamic lesions and symptoms of the schizophrenic disease. There are also reports on volume reduction of the whole thalamus in first-episode neuroleptic-free patients. It appears unlikely that the neuroleptic medication plays an etiological important role, since no significant correlations were found between the volume and cell reductions and the neuroleptic treatment period. The reviewed data suggest that distinct thalamic nuclei and therefore distinct neuronal circuits are involved in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.