Real-time perfusion adenosine stress echocardiography versus myocardial perfusion adenosine scintigraphy for the detection of myocardial ischaemia in patients with stable coronary artery disease. Real-time perfusion (RTP) contrast echocardiography using low mechanical index power modulation technique allows for simultaneous myocardial perfusion and wall motion analysis. RTP-adenosine stress echocardiography (ASE) could be an alternative to dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography more tolerable for the patients and possibly similarly accurate. We aimed to evaluate RTP-ASE for the detection of myocardial ischaemia, compared to 99mTc-sestamibi single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT).Patients with suspected coronary artery disease, admitted to SPECT evaluation, were prospectively invited to participate. Patients underwent RTP imaging (SONOS 5500) using infusion of Sonovue (Bracco, Milano, Italy) before and during ASE. Two separate readers performed off-line analysis of myocardial perfusion and wall motion by RTP-ASE. A perfusion defect was the principal marker of ischaemia. Wall motion assessment was used to evaluate ischaemia in segments with perfusion artefacts. Each segment was attributed to one of the three main coronary vessel areas of interest: the left anterior descending (LAD) the left circumflex (LCx) and the right posterior descending (RPD). Normal SPECT at stress was judged normal at rest.In 33 patients, 99 coronary territories were analysed by SPECT and RTP-ASE. SPECT showed evidence of ischaemia in 9 of 33 patients. For the detection of ischaemia, the overall level of agreement between RTP-ASE and SPECT was 92% in all segments. The level of agreement was 88% in LAD, 97% in LCx and 91% in RPD segments.Real-time perfusion-adenosine stress echocardiography using power modulation could be an accurate and feasible tool for evaluation of ischaemia in patients with suspected coronary artery disease. The results from this study need confirmation by a study of a larger patient sample.