Bifrontal encephalogaleosynangiosis for children with moyamoya disease. Several operative techniques have been reported to increase the cerebral blood flow (CBF) of the anterior cerebral artery (ACA) territory in patients with moyamoya disease. However, the optimal procedure has not yet been determined. This study compared the efficacy of performing bifrontal encephalogaleosynangiosis (EGS) using a craniotomy with performing EGS using bur holes.The authors retrospectively analyzed surgical results of pediatric patients with moyamoya disease treated using encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis (EDAS) and bifrontal EGS with a craniotomy, or EGS with bur holes, for the purpose of improving the ischemia of the ACA territory. Patients' demographic data, clinical presentations, surgical therapies, and clinical outcomes were reviewed.Nine patients underwent EDAS with bifrontal EGS using a craniotomy. Three patients underwent EDAS with EGS using bur holes for 5 cerebral hemispheres (1 bur hole in 2 hemispheres, 2 bur holes in 2 hemispheres, and 3 bur holes in 1 hemisphere). The mean follow-up period was 46.8 months (range 7-96 months). Preoperative symptoms improved in all patients in each group. The collateral circulation in the ACA territory made by EGS was divided into 3 groups according to postoperative angiography results: Group A (revascularization of more than two-thirds of the ACA territory), Group B (revascularization between one-third and two-thirds), and Group C (revascularization less than one-third). Of 5 hemispheres treated with EGS using bur holes, 1 was evaluated as Group B and 4 as Group C. Of 18 hemispheres treated with bifrontal EGS using a craniotomy, 8 were evaluated as Group A, 7 as Group B, and 3 as Group C. The patients who underwent bifrontal EGS using a craniotomy showed significantly better revascularization than those who underwent EGS using bur holes (p = 0.0065). Cerebral blood flow in the ACA territory improved in 13 (92.9%) of 14 hemispheres in patients treated with bifrontal EGS. In contrast, only 3 (60%) of 5 hemispheres demonstrated an increase of CBF in patients treated with EGS using bur holes. A trend was demonstrated for better improvement with bifrontal EGS (p = 0.08).Encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis with bifrontal EGS using a craniotomy demonstrated better revascularization and improvement of CBF in the ACA territory than with EGS using bur holes. Bifrontal EGS using a craniotomy is considered to be a simple, safe, and effective surgical procedure for improvement of the ischemia of the ACA territory in pediatric patients with moyamoya disease.