Network analysis of functional auditory pathways mapped with fluorodeoxyglucose: associative effects of a tone conditioned as a Pavlovian excitor or inhibitor. The purpose of this study was to examine how opposite learned associative properties of the same auditory stimulus are represented by the pattern of network interactions between auditory system structures. [14C(U)]2-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) autoradiography was used to compare mean auditory system activity and interregional correlations resulting from the presentation of a tone trained as either a Pavlovian conditioned excitor or inhibitor. Rats were trained with reinforced trials of the conditioned excitor (A+) intermixed with non-reinforced trials of a tone-light compound (AX-). For the Conditioned Excitor group, the tone was the excitor (A+), while for the Conditioned Inhibitor group the tone was the inhibitor (X-). After conditioning, both groups were injected with FDG and presented with the same tone. Structural equation models, constructed from the anatomical connections between auditory regions and their interregional correlations in FDG uptake, were used to calculate path coefficients representing the network interactions. The opposite associative significance of the tone was reflected as functional changes in the interactions between parallel auditory pathways. Direct covariance effects through lemniscal pathways from the ventral cochlear nucleus were similar in absolute magnitude but differed in sign between the Excitor and Inhibitor network models. Extra-auditory influences on the dorsal cochlear nucleus were greater for the tone-inhibitor, reflecting possible interactions of this nucleus with extra-auditory regions. The different associative effects of the tone suggest that central auditory pathways can code not only the physical qualities, but also the associative significance of auditory stimuli. These findings demonstrate that neural network interactions differentiate the associative effects of tones in the brain. It is proposed that associative learning is a distributed property of neural networks and that such a property can be understood by considering the interactions between component parts of the network.