Lanreotide in the treatment of patients with thyroid eye disease. Octreotide, a potent synthetic somatostatin (SM) analogue, was recently evaluated and found to have a beneficial effect in thyroid eye disease (TED), mostly in those patients with a positive Octreoscan-111. Lanreotide (LRT Somatuline-Ipsen), a new SM long-acting analogue, is more active than natural SM and shows a much longer duration of action. The aim of the present preliminary study was to evaluate the therapeutic effect of LRT in the treatment of TED. Five patients, three males and two females, mean age 50.6 +/- 7.6 S.D. (45-64) years, all with severe symptoms of TED were studied. A similar number of patients, matched for age, sex and severity of ophthalmopathy served as controls. All the patients and controls were investigated with orbital scintigraphy using 111 In DTPA-D-Phe1-octreotide (Octreoscan-111) and selected on the basis of positive octreoscan. The NOSPECS system, as adapted by Donaldson et al. (Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism 1973 37 276-285) and a disease activity score, as proposed recently by an International Workshop, have been followed in this study in order to evaluate the response to treatment. The five patients who comprised the treatment group received 0.04 g LRT i.m. once every 2 weeks over a period of 3 months, after which the Octreoscan-111 was repeated. The control patients were given an injection of water i.m., also once every 2 weeks for 3 months, after which they were evaluated clinically. No Octreoscan-111 was performed in the controls. All patients and controls were evaluated by the same physician, who was unaware of the type of treatment used. A decrease in the NOSPECS score and the clinical activity score was regarded as a positive response, while no change or an increase in the NOSPECS score along with no clinical improvement was regarded as a negative response. After 3 months of treatment with LRT, four patients showed a statistically significant improvement in ophthalmopathy in both eyes and one in one eye. Three of the control patients with TED did not show any change, one showed a minor improvement in one eye and no change in the other and one showed deterioration in both eyes. An interesting finding was that orbital Octreoscan-111 activity was absent in all the patients after LRT treatment. In conclusion, these preliminary results show that LRT has a beneficial effect on patients with TED, and that since it has to be given only once every 2 weeks, it is probably superior to any other form of SM treatment. However, as the number of patients was small, further studies are needed to confirm our results.