Lack of association between spermicide use and trisomy. It has been suggested that the maternal use of spermicidal contraceptives increases the frequency of certain congenital anomalies, including trisomy, but this issue is in dispute. This controversy led us to examine whether the use of spermicidal contraceptives is associated with an increased risk of fetal trisomy. A questionnaire concerning contraceptive use was completed by 13,729 women who were undergoing prenatal fetal chromosome studies but were as yet unaware of the results. Most women were at increased risk of having a trisomic fetus because of their advanced age. Of 154 fetuses with trisomy, 98 had trisomy 21. For each woman (case) with an affected fetus, four controls were selected from among women with chromosomally normal fetuses, matched for maternal age and medical center. Cases and controls were compared by matched-sample maximum-likelihood logistic regression, to examine the association between fetal trisomy and four measures of spermicide use: periconceptional use, timing of last use, duration of last use, and total lifetime use. No evidence was found for an association, either when all types of trisomy were combined or when trisomy 21 alone was considered. All point estimates of odds ratios relating spermicidal exposure to trisomy were approximately 1, and an effect greater than a twofold increase was excluded with 95 percent confidence in the combined-trisomy group for all measures of spermicide use.It has been suggested that maternal use of spermicidal contraceptives increases the frequency of certain congenital abnormalities, including trisomy, but this issue is in dispute.  The controversy led to this examination of whether the use of spermicidal contraceptives is associated with an increased risk of fetal trisomy.  A questionnaire concerning contraceptive use was completed by 13,729 women undergoing prenatal fetal chromosome studies but were as yet unaware of the trisomic fetus because of their advanced age.  Of 154 fetuses with trisomy, 98 had trisomy 21.  For each woman (case) with an affected fetus, 4 controls were selected from among women with chromosomally normal fetuses, matched for maternal age and medical center.  Cases and controls were compared by matched-sample maximum-likelihood logistic regression, to examine the association between fetal trisomy and 4 measures of spermicide use:  preconceptional use, timing of last use, duration of last use, and total lifetime use.  No evidence was found for an association, either when all types of trisomy were combined or when trisomy 21 alone was considered.  All point estimates of odds ratios relating spermicidal exposure to trisomy were approximately 1, and an effect  a 2-fold increase was excluded with 95% confidence in the combined-trisomy group for all measures of spermicidal use.