Attitudes towards abortion among physicians working at obstetrical and paediatric departments in Denmark. The purpose of this study was to describe the attitudes among physicians working in perinatal medicine towards abortion for social reasons or because of abnormal prenatal diagnostic results. A questionnaire was sent to all physicians registered as employed at obstetrical or paediatric departments in Danish hospitals with a neonatal function. Of 994 questionnaires, 687 (69 per cent) were completed and returned. There was strong consensus among all participants that abortion is acceptable until week 21 in the case of trisomy 13 and at least until week 19 in the case of cystic fibrosis. Furthermore, there was strong consensus that abortion in the first trimester is acceptable in the case of an unwanted pregnancy in a 16-year-old girl and in the case of Down syndrome. Major controversy was found in connection with abortion in the case of Turner syndrome until week 21, abortion in week 13 in the case of polycystic kidney disease, abortion in week 24 in the case of Down syndrome, and abortion for social reasons in week 21.In Denmark, where abortion has been available on request until the 12th week of pregnancy since 1973, advances in prenatal diagnosis have produced controversy over sanctions beyond this limit in cases of severe fetal anomalies.  This 1995 survey investigated attitudes toward abortion among physicians working in the obstetrics or pediatric departments of Danish hospitals with a neonatal function.  687 (69%) of the eligible registered physicians returned the postal questionnaire, in which they were asked their opinions on the acceptability of induced abortion in a series of case scenarios.  Overall, the responses were indicative of a gradualist orientation, in which abortion is regarded as increasingly problematic as the fetus develops.  There was strong consensus (above 75%) that abortion is acceptable in the case of teenage pregnancy and Down syndrome during the first trimester, in the case of cystic fibrosis at least through week 19, and for trisomy 13 until week 21.  More controversial was abortion in the case of Turner syndrome before week 21, polycystic kidney disease at week 13, abortion for social indications at week 21, and abortion in the case of Down syndrome at week 24.  In general, obstetricians were more liberal in their abortion-related attitudes than pediatricians.  There was no correlation between abortion attitudes and physician age, gender, or political persuasion.