The correlation between 99mTc-MIBI uptake and MIB-1 as a nuclear proliferation marker in glioma--a comparative study with 201Tl. Technetium-99m methoxy-isobutylisonitrile (MIBI), like thallium-201 (201Tl), is a highly efficient agent for the diagnosis and monitoring of glioma tumors. Although 201Tl uptake is known to be partly associated with proliferative activity, little is known about the correlation between MIBI uptake and proliferation activity in gliomas. The current study was performed to assess the correlation between MIBI uptake and proliferative activities in gliomas, estimated by the monoclonal antibody to Ki-67 antigen (MIB-1) staining method. By comparing the results with those of 201Tl, we determined which tracer would be suitable for estimating proliferative activities. Twenty-four presurgical glioma patients (six with low-grade gliomas, five with anaplastic astrocytomas, and 13 with glioblastomas) were given MIBI and 201Tl SPECT. Early (10 min after injection) and delayed images (3 h after injection) were obtained for both MIBI and 201Tl scintigraphy. SPECT parameters, early ratio (ER), delayed ratio (DR), and retention index (RI) were obtained in both radiopharmaceuticals. All patients underwent subsequent surgical excision, and the specimens were immunostained for MIB-1. The proliferative activity was measured as a percentage positive nuclear area for MIB-1 (MI MIB-1 index). To evaluate the relationship between the proliferative activity and SPECT parameters, we performed a correlation analysis. MI correlated with the MIBI uptake ratio (r = 0.75 for ER, and r = 0.7 for DR). Both DR and RI of 201Tl also correlated with MI, but weakly (r = 0.6 for DR, and. r = 0.59 for RI). There was no significant correlation between the MIB-1 index and the other parameters. MIBI-uptake parameters demonstrated a stronger positive correlation with the MIB-1 index than that of 201Tl. With the use of MIBI SPECT, we can estimate the proliferative activity of glioma noninvasively.