Validation of quantitative gated single photon emission computed tomography and an automated scoring system for the assessment of regional left ventricular systolic function. Despite its ability to quantify regional perfusion and function, there is no established method for quantification of regional perfusion and function by myocardial gated single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The aim of this study was to establish a quantitative index for regional perfusion and systolic function assessment using gated SPECT. Myocardial SPECT was performed at rest using (99m)Tc sestamibi with 8-frame gating in 62 consecutive patients. In addition to computation of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), a new computerized method for quantifying, displaying and automatically grading regional data was developed. Regional function was quantified as wall motion, regional EF, and imaged based, count based, and normalized per cent wall thickenings (%WTs). Regional perfusion was assessed as a relative per cent peak count. Data were displayed on a 25-segmented polar map and automatically graded with a 5-point scale, and then summed scores were calculated. These quantitative parameters were compared to data from radionuclide ventriculography (RNV) and contrast left ventriculography. Gated SPECT had high reproducibilities for calculating global and regional ejection fractions and %WT indices (r=0.811-0.984, P<0.0001), but measurement of wall motion was less reproducible (r=0.555, SEE=7.9, P<0.011). LVEF estimated by gated SPECT and summed perfusion scores correlated closely (P<0.0001) with angiographic LVEF. Among the summed function indices that correlated closely with LVEF, normalized %WT had the closest correlations with LVEF estimated by RNV (r=0.657, P<0.0001) and by gated SPECT (r=0.778, P<0.0001). Assessment by visual reviewing of cine-mode playback or by normalized %WT had greater overall sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values for detecting impaired regional function among the functional parameters: 71%, 79%, 63% and 84% for cine format analysis, and 78%, 73%, 59% and 87% for normalized %WT, respectively. Thus, besides LVEF, quantitative gated SPECT can provide reproducible and reliable quantitative data on regional perfusion and function. Automated summed scores obtained by gated SPECT can reflect integrated abnormalities of regional perfusion and function of the left ventricle. Both visual analyses by cine-mode display and a functional map of normalized wall thickening have greater diagnostic values for detecting regional function deficit related to coronary artery disease.