Alzheimer's dementia, sleep disorders and nuclear medicine. In case new diagnostic procedures for Alzheimer's dementia (AD) appear, Nuclear Medicine (NM) would like to be aware of them in order to evaluate its own contribution to diagnose AD by SPET and PET brain studies. Recently, sleep disturbances were studied in AD and tend to be diagnostic for early AD. In AD the actual time of night sleep was found to be 5.7 h, while awakeness time for the same night sleep increased to 2.7 h. Also in AD, the REM and the slow wave stage (SWS) during sleep are shorter and hypopnea and apnea phases are abundant. Internal body temperature during night sleep is only slightly increased in AD, while in temporofrontal dementia and in normal individuals this increase is significant. The circadian rhythm of melatonin is disturbed in AD. The normal duration of inspiration and expiration during daytime which is reversed during normal night sleep, has not been studied in patients with AD. However, this reverse condition favoring inspiration is expected to provide more oxygen to the brain. Chronic but not acute stress causes memory loss and is currently being studied by us as a possible causative factor for memory loss in AD. Tomographic SPET and PET brain studies can locate the site of brain damage in AD. This is important since memory has recently been classified into four categories, namely episodic, semantic, procedural and working memory. In early AD only procedural memory remains intact. This means that these patients may drive a car, do computer word processing and play some games at home or/and in the field. This memory is located in specific nuclei in the cerebellum and the occipital frontal area which do not relate to sites of other kinds of memory. This difference could be well identified by tomographic SPET or PET studies. Thus NM may also diagnose the early stage of AD. Another issue refers to the indications that the unified Medicare and Medicaid system in the USA has issued on September 15, 2004 for performing a PET (18)F-FDG study for AD. These indications are fully described in this editorial.