The influence of the living conditions on the diagnostics process and treatment of bronchial asthma of developmental age based on the author's own material. Bronchial asthma is one of the most frequent chronic diseases of developmental age. The occurrence of bronchial asthma with children is connected with individual predisposition to development of atopic disease as well as with the presence of specific environmental conditions. Specific factors include food, inhalatory and contact allergens. Non-specific factors include infections, air pollution, and passive smoking. Environment conditions have the significant influence on the course of the disease. The aim of this work is to estimate the frequency of occurring bronchial asthma with children and the influence of living conditions on the diagnosis and treatment processes. The researches were completed on the group of 43 children aged from 8 months to 14 years. The children attended the Paediatric Counselling and complained about chronic cough or symptoms of wheezing breath. The initial diagnosis included taking a history of a patient and his/her family, physical examinations, and supplementary investigation. The final diagnosis was confirmed after a specialist consultation. After introduction of medical treatment, the follow-up examinations were recommended every 4-6 weeks. In the examined group the children with proper birth weight (89%) who were breast-fed at least for 6 months (78%) predominated. In 23% of cases the living conditions were qualified as inconvenient. 63% of children were in a risk of passive smoking in their place of living. In all age groups the children from the families burdened with atopy dominated (98%). In 44% of cases a pet was present in the place of living. In the examined material the highest percentage of children with diagnosis was observed in groups of children aged 7-10. In this group the boys living in difficult conditions prevailed. A high percentage of young children aged 2-3 years were observed. In this group the girls living in good living conditions prevailed. On the basis of the present experience it has been possible to claim that parents of children aged 4-6 have had the highest consciousness of necessity of urgent diagnosis and medical treatment. Treatment of bronchial asthma was introduced at 98% of cases. In the examined group no essential statistical effectiveness of treatment regarding to sex or the living conditions was found. The presented analysis confirms the role of environmental epidemiology in the setting of true relationship between the diagnosis of asthma and the exposure to specific environmental factors.