Usefulness of lung and right ventricular thallium-201 uptake during single photon emission computed tomography in exercise testing of patients with coronary artery disease. Increased pulmonary or right ventricular 201Tl uptake during the exercise test has been used as a marker of multivessel coronary artery disease. The most useful method for assessing the severity of coronary artery disease was evaluated among conventional evaluation of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), measurement of lung to heart uptake ratio (L/H), and right ventricular to left ventricular uptake ratio (RV/LV) on 201Tl images during exercise testing.Regions-of-interest (4 X 4 pixels) were placed at the lung and the heart, and L/H was defined as mean lung uptake/mean heart uptake. Correspondingly, regions-of-interest (4 X 4 pixels) were placed at the RV and the LV, and RV/LV was defined as maximum RV uptake /maximum LV uptake. L/H and RV/LV on the initial image were analyzed in 216 patients(angiographically normal coronary arteries: 89, single-vessel disease: 82, multivessel disease: 45). The diagnostic value was evaluated using the receiver operating characteristic curve.All methods showed significantly higher values in patients with multivessel disease than in patients with no coronary artery disease or single-vessel disease. L/H was significantly higher in patients with prior myocardial infarction and RV/LV was significantly higher in patients without infarction. The sensitivity of only conventional SPECT evaluation for multivessel coronary artery disease was low (sensitivity 53%, specificity 94%). However, addition of evaluation of L/H and RV/LV to SPECT improved the sensitivity for multivessel coronary artery disease (sensitivity 93%, specificity 49%).The diagnostic sensitivity for multivessel coronary artery disease was improved by adding L/H and RV/LV to conventional evaluation of exercise 201Tl SPECT. L/H and RV/LV during exercise 201Tl imaging may provide additional information regarding the severity of coronary artery disease.