Infectious and inflammatory disorders of the circulatory system as risk factors for stroke in Saudi children. To report on the role of infectious and inflammatory disorders as risk factors for stroke in a prospective and retrospective cohort of Saudi children.Children, who presented with stroke, were evaluated at the Division of Pediatric Neurology or admitted to King Khalid University Hospital, College of Medicine, King Saud University, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia during the periods July 1992 to February 2001 (retrospective study) and February 2001 to March 2003 (prospective study). Investigations for suspected cases included hemostatic assays, microbiological and serological tests. Neuroimaging included cranial CT, MRI, magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), magnetic resonance venography (MRV) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) brain scan.Of the 104 Saudi children with stroke, seen during the combined study periods of 10 years and 7 months, infectious and inflammatory disorders of the circulatory system were the identified risk factor in 18 (17.3%). Five children had stroke following acute bacterial meningitis at ages ranging between 5-21 months. The causative organism was identified in 3 of them and consisted of Haemophilus influenzae (in a 5-month-old girl), Streptococcus pneumoniae (in a 21-month-old girl complicated by subdural empyema and sinovenous thrombosis), and Staphylococcus aureus in a 6-month-old boy who had an underlying chronic granulomatous disease. Unspecified meningitis/meningoencephalitis affected 4 patients, whereas 3 children had an underlying congenital infection as a cause for their stroke. Two of the latter 3 children were diagnosed to have congenital toxoplasmosis, and the third had congenital rubella syndrome. Two girls had stroke following septicemia at ages of one and 2 months. Neurobrucellosis caused stroke in 2 boys at the ages of 4 1/2 and 4 years. In both patients, neuroimaging revealed lacunar and other infarcts involving mainly the deep cerebral nuclei, secondary to occlusion of small penetrating end arteries. Two patients presented with cerebrovascular disease following systemic lupus erythematosus. These were a 12-year-old girl and a 5-year-old boy.Several of the infectious diseases that caused stroke in this cohort of Saudi children are potentially preventable through childhood immunization programs or other maternity health programs. In particular, immunogenic conjugate vaccines against the 3 most common organisms causing acute bacterial meningitis (Haemophilus influenzae type b, Neisseria meningitidis and defined serotypes of Streptococcus pneumoniae) are needed to protect the young (<2 years) who are mostly affected.