Hounsfield units upon PET/CT are useful in evaluating metastatic regional lymph nodes in patients with oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma. This study evaluated the usefulness of measurements of X-ray attenuation (in Hounsfield units) obtained from unenhanced CT images for attenuation correction of the positron emission tomography (PET) data from PET/CT in the assessment of regional lymph node metastasis in oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma.17 patients with oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma underwent surgery after evaluation with PET/CT. After the excised lymph nodes were reviewed, we compared the histopathology and PET/CT findings, and analysed the lymph node metastasis. When 18-F fludeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake in the lymph nodes was focally prominent in comparison with background mediastinal activity (regardless of lymph node size), the lymph nodes were considered to be positive for malignancy by PET/CT. The mean Hounsfield units of mediastinal lymph nodes showing abnormally increased FDG uptake in PET/CT was retrospectively evaluated using images from the unenhanced CT component of PET/CT. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was applied to determine the optimal cut-off value of mean Hounsfield units for detecting individual lymph node metastases.For depiction of malignant nodal groups in each lymph node group, the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of PET/CT based on increased FDG uptake were 58.8%, 74.5% and 70.8%, respectively. For patients with nodal groups that were positive for uptake by PET/CT, the mean attenuation in lymph nodes as measured by CT was 48 ± 13 HU for malignant nodes and 75 ± 18 HU for benign nodes. This difference was statistically significant (p<0.001). Using ROC curve analysis, we determined the cut-off as 71 HU. When we excluded lymph nodes with attenuation higher than 71 HU from the nodes determined as malignant by PET/CT, the specificity and accuracy for detecting metastatic lymph nodes improved to 90.9% and 83.3%, respectively.When interpreting lymph node metastasis in oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma using PET/CT, the assumption that any lymph node with mean HU>71 is benign can improve diagnostic accuracy.