Surgery for oligometastatic non-small cell lung cancer: long-term results from a single center experience. The role of surgery in the multimodal therapy for selected stage IV oligometastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is still a forum of open discussion.We have retrospectively analyzed the records of 53 patients with oligometastatic NSCLC who had been treated with curative intent in the period January 1997 to May 2010.The mean age and the male/female ratio were 61 years and 32:21, respectively. A single metastatic lesion was present in 45 (84.9%) subjects, in 2 patients there were 2 different anatomic sites involved, and in 8 patients there were 2 metastases in the same site. The most common involved sites were brain (39), followed by adrenal gland (7), bone (3), vertebrae (3), liver (1), and contralateral supraclavicular lymph node (1). Distant disease was completely resected in 42 patients 10 patients were treated with exclusive chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and 1 with local laser therapy. Twenty-nine patients had been administered concurrent chemoradiation in a neoadjuvant setting before the surgical treatment at the lung or both sites (primary/distant). The pulmonary resection was complete (R0) in 42 patients (79.2%). Overall, 1- and 5-year survivals were 73.1% and 24%, respectively (median follow-up, 28 months). Median overall survival, local disease-free survival, and distant disease-free survival, estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, were respectively 19, 72, and 12 months. After stepwise multivariate analysis, the weight loss (P<.001), the completeness of pulmonary resection (P=.0019), and, interestingly, the performance of a positron emission tomography-computed tomography scan in preoperative staging (P=.05) maintained their independent prognostic value as overall survival determinants.Surgical treatment for selected stage IV NSCLC is feasible and safe. Furthermore, good survival can be expected in those patients in whom a complete resection of the primary tumor and radical control of the distant diseases are accomplished.