Histological alterations in chronically hypoperfused myocardium. Correlation with PET findings. In patients with chronic coronary artery disease (CAD) and left ventricular dysfunction, flow/metabolic studies of the myocardium with positron emission tomography (PET) are able to distinguish viable but dysfunctional myocardium from irreversible ischemic injury and scar tissue. In this study, PET findings of blood flow and metabolism in chronically hypoperfused myocardium were correlated with histology.We studied 33 patients suffering from CAD. In each patient, myocardial blood flow and metabolism were measured with PET 1 or 2 days before revascularization. During surgery, transmural biopsies were taken from the left ventricular anterior wall and planimetrically scored for the degree of myolysis (sarcomere loss). The amount of connective tissue was calculated using morphometric techniques. Contrast ventriculography demonstrated abnormal wall motion in 23 patients. Fourteen patients with a mismatch pattern (decreased flow with preserved metabolism) in the biopsy region after quantitative analysis of the PET data showed 11 +/- 6 vol% fibrosis and 25 +/- 13% cells with sarcomere loss. The space formerly occupied by sarcomeres was mainly replaced by glycogen and mitochondria. A significant wall motion improvement was noted 3 months after surgery. Nine patients showed a match pattern (concordant flow/metabolism defects). The biopsies revealed 35 +/- 25% fibrosis and 24 +/- 15% glycogen-storing cells. The biopsies of the 10 patients with normal anterior wall motion showed 8 +/- 4% fibrosis and 12 +/- 8% glycogen-accumulating cells.It can be concluded that areas with impaired wall motion and a PET match pattern show extensive fibrosis. Regions with reduced flow and preserved FDG metabolism, however, contain predominantly viable cells. In these regions, significant recovery of wall motion is found after revascularization. Regions with normal wall motion contain predominantly viable cells. Cells with reduced contractile material and increased glycogen content are mainly found in areas with wall motion impairment but are also present in areas with normal wall motion and a severe stenosis of the coronary vessel.