Anterior spinal decompression and fusion for cervical flexion myelopathy in young patients. The mechanism underlying cervical flexion myelopathy (CFM) is unclear. The authors report the results of anterior decompression and fusion (ADF) in terms of neurological status and radiographically documented status in young patients and discuss the pathophysiological mechanism of the entity.Twelve patients underwent ADF in which autogenous iliac bone graft was placed. The fusion area was one segment in four cases, two segments in seven, and three segments in one. Neurological status, as determined by the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score, radiographic findings, and intraoperative findings were evaluated. The mean follow-up period was 63.3 months (range 20-180 months). Grip strength was significantly improved and sensory disturbances resolved completely. Intrinsic muscle atrophy, however, persisted in all patients at the final follow-up examination. Local kyphosis in the flexed-neck position at the fusion levels was corrected by surgery. Preoperative computerized tomography myelography revealed that the cord compression index, which was calculated by anteroposterior and transverse diameters of the spinal cord, decreased to 33 +/- 6.2% in the flexed-neck position from 39.7 +/- 9.9% in the extended-neck position. The anterior dura mater-spinal cord distance decreased to 1.9 +/- 0.7 mm in the flexed-neck position from 4 +/- 1.2 mm in extended-neck position. The posterior dura mater-spinal cord distance increased to 2.5 +/- 1.1 mm in the flexed-neck position from 1.3 +/- 0.5 mm in the extended-neck position.Postoperative neurological status was improved in terms of grip strength, sensory disturbance, and JOA score, and local kyphosis in the flexed-neck position at the fusion levels was reduced and stabilized by ADF. In most cases local kyphosis in the flexed-neck position was demonstrated at the corresponding disc level, as were cervical cord compression and decrease of the anterior wall of the dura mater-spinal cord distance in the flexed-neck position. Therefore, the contact pressure between the spinal cord and anterior structures (intact vertebral bodies and intervertebral discs) in the mobile and kyphotic segments was considered to contribute to the onset of CFM. The ADF-related improvement of the clinical symptoms, preventing kyphotic alignment in flexion and decreasing movement of the cervical spine, supports the idea of a contact pressure mechanism. Furthermore, short ADF performed only at the corresponding segments can preserve more mobile segments compared with posterior fusion. Thus, ADF should be the first choice in the treatment of CFM.