Video-assisted mini-thoracotomy for surgical treatment of thoracolumbar junction fractures. There are several solutions for the treatment of fractures of the thoracolumbar junction (classical anterior, posterior, combined approaches). The advent of video-assisted minimally invasive techniques has helped minimize complications. The aim of this work was to analyze the clinical and radiological outcome in a prospective series of 20 patients who underwent video-assisted mini-thoracotomy for the treatment of thoracolumbar junction fractures.This prospective study included 20 patients, mean age 43.3 years, with at least one year follow-up. All patients presented a normal neurological examination (Frankel E). Fractures were classified Magerl A (n = 19) and B (n = 1). Corporectomy/correction (aided with an endodistractor in the last nine cases) was performed with grafting and osteosynthesis. Perioperative and postoperative complications were noted. Focal kyphosis and regional angulation were noted before and after the operation and at last follow-up using the Stagnara system.The arthrodesis had fused at last follow-up in all patients. There were three cases of alelectasia which regressed in two months. Overall outcome showed satisfactory angular correction which was maintained at last follow-up. The gain in focal kyphosis was 13.71 degrees on average in the immediate postoperative period and persisted at last follow-up (13.31degrees). The gain in corrected regional angulation was 14 degrees in the immediate postoperative period and 14 degrees at last follow-up. The gain in focal kyphosis and regional angulation was two-fold greater with the endodistractor than with external maneuvers.The complication rate was very low. Corrections obtained were comparable with those reported in the literature and persisted over time.Bearing in mind the learning curve, there are fewer complications with the video-assisted minimally invasive approach than with classical thoracotomy or anterior surgery. This is true for perioperative and early and late postoperative complications. The correction achieved is satisfactory and lasting. A specific ancillary is essential for the reduction and for fitting the anterior graft without lost of correction. This technique combines the best results achieved with thoracotomy (Onimus) with a limited rate of complications.