Diagnostic workup before laparoscopic cholecystectomy--which diagnostic tools should be used? A prerequisite for successful laparoscopic cholecystectomy is the exclusion of potential risks such as cholangiolithiasis, anatomical malformations or diseases of the stomach. As there is no general agreement regarding the appropriate preoperative diagnostic workup, we compared different diagnostic methods as to their value in detecting unknown accompanying diseases and complications.Between 9/90 and 8/93, we performed 850 laparoscopic cholecystectomies. The first 700 were included in this study. A prospective comparison was carried out of the diagnostic accuracy of history, physical examination, laboratory tests, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy or barium meal, i.v. cholangiography and abdominal ultrasound.Measurement of the diameter of the common bile duct was found to be a good noninvasive method for diagnosing common bile duct stones (sensitivity 80%, specificity 99%). In combination with the history and the laboratory tests the sensitivity could be improved to 99%. The sensitivity of i.v. cholangiography in detecting common bile duct stones was 80%, the specificity 99.3%. 646/700 patients underwent preoperative endoscopy/barium meal. In 53 (8.2%) patients pathological findings were found, but only in 4 cases (0.6%) they influenced the indication for laparoscopic cholecystectomy. In 1 patient an advanced gastric cancer was diagnosed 6 months after laparoscopic cholecystectomy, the preoperative barium meal did not show any pathological findings.The results show that routine ultrasonography in combination with history and laboratory tests prior to laparoscopic cholecystectomy can be recommended for detecting common bile duct stones. In patients with 1 or more pathologic finding endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography should be performed preoperatively. A gastroscopy should be done in patients with nonspecific upper abdominal pain, history of peptic ulcer disease and persisting pain after laparoscopic cholecystectomy.