A critical analysis of intraoperative time utilization in laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Most of the expense of laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) is incurred while the patient is in the operation room however, heretofore there has been no critical analysis of the time required to perform the various steps of the operation. An understanding of how operative time is used is the first step toward improving the efficiency of the procedure and decreasing costs while maintaining an acceptable standard of care.Of 194 patients undergoing LC at a university hospital between 1994 and 1997, operational videotapes of 48 randomly chosen patients were reviewed. Three groups of patients were identified: those undergoing LC for chronic cholecystitis (n = 27), those undergoing LC for acute cholecystitis (n = 11), and those with common bile duct stones (CBDS), (n = 10) undergoing LC with transcystic common bile duct exploration. The procedure was divided into the following seven steps trocar entry, laparoscopic ultrasound, dissection of the triangle of Calot, cholangiogram, dissection of the gallbladder, extraction of the gallbladder, and irrigation-aspiration with removal of ports. Time spent for camera cleaning, bleeding control, and insertion of the cholangiocatheter into the cystic duct was also calculated. The groups were compared in terms of time spent for each step using the Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney U tests.The mean +/- SD operating time was 66.5 +/- 20.5 min. The acute group had the longest operating time, followed by the CBDS and chronic groups. Dissection of the gallbladder, insertion of the cholangiocatheter, and irrigation-aspiration were longer steps in the acute group than in the other groups (p < 0.05). Dissection of the triangle of Calot took longer in acute cholecystitis than in chronic cholecystitis (p < 0.05). CBDS cases took longer (p < 0.05) than chronic cases because stone extraction added an average of 17.5 min to the time required for the cholangiogram in chronic cholecystitis. Laparoscopic ultrasound took longer in the CBDS group than in the other groups (p < 0.05). The mean +/- SD time spent for the cholangiogram and laparoscopic ultrasound in chronic cholecystitis was 7.5 +/- 4.3 and 4.8 +/- 1.9 min, respectively.This time analysis study demonstrates that acute cholecystitis requires a longer operating time because most of the individual steps in the procedure take longer. In patients with choledocholithiasis, stone extraction was responsible for longer operating times. This study should serve as a basis for future studies focusing on time utilization in laparoscopic surgery.