MR imaging in chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis. The role of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the evaluation of diffuse parenchymal abnormalities of the liver has been expanded by recent technical advances of MR systems as well as the evolution of intravenous contrast media. Currently, MR is undoubtedly the most useful imaging modality for detecting the presence of chronic liver disease. Tailored sequences allow acurate depiction of specific disorders, including steatohepatitis and iron-overload states. Morphologic changes and signal intensity effects not only facilitate the diagnosis of chronic liver disease with MRI but they also help to distinguish between different etiologies, and they assist in staging the histologic severity of certain chronic conditions. Moreover, the faster MRI scanning techniques presently available permit the dynamic assessment of contrast enhancement, which permits improved characterization of focal hepatic lesions, including regenerative nodules, dysplastic nodules, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Although overlap in MRI findings still may exist among different types of chronic liver disease and among focal liver lesions, familiarity with certain specific imaging features may be diagnostic in the proper clinical setting. Finally, comprehensive MRI examination, including MR angiography and MR cholangiography, is the most sensitive and cost-effective technique for detecting extrahepatic disease, diagnosing vascular disorders, and evaluating the patient before or after liver transplantation. This article focuses on the current role of MR imaging in patients with chronic liver disease. The subjects covered include the detection and characterization of chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis, specific findings seen in steatohepatitis and certain metabolic diseases, the evaluation of extrahepatic vascular complications of cirrhosis, and patient assessment before and after liver transplantation. The characterization of hepatic masses is also included briefly. This subject is covered in greater depth elsewhere in this issue.