Solitary liver cysts in children: not always so simple. Liver cysts in children are uncommon. Many are simple and solitary and do not require intervention. However, this series demonstrates a broad range of potential pathologies, some of which are life-threatening.All children referred to our unit during an 8-year period (1998-2005) and found to have a solitary liver cyst were prospectively recorded. Clinical, radiologic, and pathologic features were analyzed. Children with an isolated extrahepatic choledochal cyst and polycystic disease were excluded.Twenty-one children with a liver cyst were identified. Two had undergone unsuccessful surgical intervention before referral. There were 11 prenatally detected cysts. Median gestational age at detection was 22 weeks (19-35 weeks) only 1 was specifically characterized as a liver cyst prenatally. Six of these required surgery: 2 large simple cysts, 2 intrahepatic choledochal cysts, 1 giant complex biliary cyst causing respiratory distress, and 1 ciliated hepatic foregut cyst. Of the 5 cysts remaining under ultrasound surveillance, 4 decreased in size or resolved. In 10 children presenting between birth and 15.8 years, a liver cyst was diagnosed postnatally: 3 huge cystic mesenchymal hamartomas, 1 type V choledochal cyst, 1 hydatid cyst, and 5 simple cysts. Four of these required surgical resection. Simple cysts tended to be small and could be distinguished from other pathologies using a combination of imaging techniques (ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging/magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography [MRCP], radionuclide scan). Only 2 of 12 children with "simple" cysts required surgery for symptoms. However, a wide range of other cyst pathologies were found in 9 children, and although none was malignant, some were life-threatening and 7 required resection.Simple solitary nonparasitic liver cysts rarely cause symptoms or require surgery, but the pediatric surgeon should be aware of the wide range of other types of liver cyst in children to ensure appropriate treatment.