Cholesterol gallstone disease: the current status of nonsurgical therapy. Gallstone disease is a common disease that appears to be related to a Western diet. The underlying pathogenesis is a subtle alteration in the liver such that excessive cholesterol is extracted from the liver cell by bile acids undergoing an enterohepatic recirculation. Gallstone disease progresses through well-defined stages, beginning with a bile supersaturated with cholesterol and proceeding to crystal formation, stone growth, and finally symptoms caused by impaction of a stone in either the cystic duct or the common bile duct. The natural history is that most stones never cause symptoms. Stones that cause symptoms have been present for an average of 12 years. The treatment of truly asymptomatic stones should be observation. Ultrasonography of the right upper quadrant is the gold standard for the diagnosis of stones in the gallbladder. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is the gold standard for the diagnosis of stones in the common bile duct. Oral cholecystogram (OCG) helps select patients who have noncalcified, floating stones that may be dissolved with bile acids or methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE). Therapy with chenodiol has been a disappointment because of a low complete response rate. The ideal candidate for attempted dissolution with chenodiol would be a thin woman with hypercholesterolemia and a small number of symptomatic, small, floating, radiolucent gallstones. Ursodeoxycholic acid (Urso), when it is available, will have all of the attributes of chenodiol and virtually none of the side effects. Rapid dissolution of gallstones with MTBE shows great promise of being a generally available means of dissolving gallstones. Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy also shows promise, but its general availability may be limited by the cost of the equipment needed. As of now, the treatment of choice for symptomatic gallstones remains cholecystectomy, unless there is a compelling reason not to operate.