Cholangiocarcinoma: spectrum of appearances on MR images using current techniques. This study describes the spectrum of appearances of cholangiocarcinoma on magnetic resonance (MR) sequences, including gadolinium-enhanced, fat-suppressed spoiled gradient echo images and MR cholangiography. Fifteen patients were included in the study. Histologic diagnosis was established in 11 patients by surgical resection (6 patients), percutaneous biopsy (4 patients), and open liver biopsy (1 patient). The final diagnosis was determined by correlation of the MR findings with cholangiographic studies and laboratory studies in 4 patients. MR studies were performed at 1.5 T, and the following sequences were obtained: T1-weighted spoiled gradient echo (SGE), T1-weighted fat-suppressed spin echo or SGE, T2-weighted fat-suppressed conventional or turbo spin echo, MR cholangiography, and gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted fat-suppressed SGE images. The following determinations were made: tumor location, tumor extent, ductal dilatation, ductal wall thickness, signal intensity, enhancement pattern, and associated findings. Mass-like neoplasms were peripheral (6 patients), hilar (1 patient), and extrahepatic (2 patients). Circumferential tumors were hilar (2 patients) and extrahepatic (4 patients). All peripheral tumors were multifocal. Mass-like tumors were well-defined, rounded, and ranged from 1 to 14 cm in diameter. Circumferential tumors had less well-defined margins and measured from 3 to 15 mm in thickness. All mass-like tumors were moderately hypointense on T1-weighted images and mildly to moderately hyperintense on T2-weighted images. The circumferential tumors were iso- to moderately hypointense on T1-weighted images and iso- to mildly hyperintense on T2-weighted images. Mass-like tumors were generally well shown on non-contrast and immediate gadolinium-enhanced images, whereas circumferential tumors were poorly seen on non-contrast images and best shown on gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted fat-suppressed images. The degree of enhancement ranged from minimal to intense on immediate gadolinium-enhanced images, with all tumors becoming more homogeneous in signal intensity on images obtained between 1 and 5 min following contrast administration. Tumor-containing lymph nodes greater than or equal to 1 cm in diameter were demonstrated in 11 out of 15 patients (73.3%). These were best shown on T2-weighted fat-suppressed images and gadolinium-enhanced fat-suppressed SGE images. MR cholangiography demonstrated the level of obstruction and degree of dilatation of the proximal biliary system in 5 out of 6 patients who underwent MR cholangiography. The spectrum of appearances of cholangiocarcinoma is demonstrable on MR images. Mass-like tumors are well shown on both pre- and post-gadolinium sequences. Circumferential tumors may cause minimally increased duct wall thickness and are most clearly shown on gadolinium-enhanced fat-suppressed SGE images obtained 1 to 5 min following gadolinium administration.