Results of pretherapeutic lymph node diagnosis in head and neck tumors. Clinical value of 18-FDG positron emission tomography (PET). Histological studies demonstrate that there is a high percentage of occult nodal metastasis in head and neck malignomas. Patients with positive lymph nodes have a comparatively worse prognosis. A neck dissection is required in these cases. By demonstrating morphological abnormalities, imaging procedures like ultrasound, computer tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can provide important initial informations about possible malignant alteration of the lymph nodes. Positron emission tomography (PET) allows functional metabolic imaging of a suspected tumor site. The aim of this study was a comparative evaluation of different diagnostic procedures with special emphasis on the value of PET in the pretherapeutic diagnosis of nodal spread in head and neck cancer.Forty patients (28 male and 12 female) with a suspected malignoma in the head and neck region underwent clinical examination including palpation of the neck sides, ultrasound, CT, and PET to detect a nodal spread of the malignancy. Fifty neck dissections were performed in 28 patients. Lymph node biopsies were performed in the remaining patients. The results of the diagnostic procedures were compared to the histology and the clinical course of the patients. The mean follow-up period was 12.5 months.A nodal metastasis was verified in 35% of all cases. Sensitivity of all imaging procedures including PET was 82%. Palpation had a sensitivity of only 61%. Specificity was 85% for ultrasound, 94% for CT and palpation, and 87% for PET. PET produced false negative results in 13.4% of all cases. Inflammation was detected in these cases. The positive predictive value was marginally better for PET than for ultrasound (77% vs. 75%). It proved to be lower than the values for palpation (86%) and CT (88%). Negative predictive value was 90-91% for all imaging procedures.In the primary diagnosis of nodal alterations in the head and neck region, a PET scan has the same diagnostic value as ultrasound or CT. By imaging the metabolism of a suspected nodal metastasis, PET can help to improve the assessment of regions with uncertain anatomic features. To avoid false positive results, acute and chronic inflammatory alterations have to be ruled out before the PET imaging.