Increase in focal concentration of deoxyhaemoglobin during neuronal activity in cerebral ischaemic patients. Blood oxygenation level dependent contrast functional magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD-fMRI) has been applied to functional mapping in brain disorders, based on the assumption that normal adults and patients with brain disorders exhibit similar evoked cerebral blood oxygenation (CBO) changes. This study compared evoked CBO changes measured by near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) with the activation mapping obtained by BOLD-fMRI in patients with cerebral ischaemia.The study involved six normal adults and six patients with cerebral ischaemia. Hand grasping was performed as a motor task. All patients could perform the task similarly to the controls at the time of examination, but single photon emission computed tomography demonstrated low baseline cerebral blood flow and a decreased haemodynamic reserve in the primary sensorimotor cortex on the lesion side. Using NIRS, concentration changes of deoxyhaemoglobin (Deoxy-Hb), oxyhaemoglobin (Oxy-Hb), and total haemoglobin (Total-Hb) were measured in the primary sensorimotor cortex contralateral to the task. BOLD-fMRI signals were measured by 1.5 T magnetic resonance imaging using an echo-planar technique. Activation maps were calculated by statistical parametric mapping.In the controls, Deoxy-Hb decreased in association with increases of Oxy-Hb and Total-Hb in the primary sensorimotor cortex during the task. However, in the patients, Deoxy-Hb increased significantly from baseline, while Oxy-Hb and Total-Hb also increased, indicating the presence of rCBF increases in response to neuronal activation. BOLD-fMRI demonstrated only limited activation areas in the primary sensorimotor cortex on the lesion side.The CBO changes in patients with cerebral ischaemia differed from those of normal adults Deoxy-Hb was increased in activation areas of the patients. This implies that BOLD-fMRI may overlook activation areas in the patients unless both increases and decreases of signal are taken into consideration.