Risk of long-term pelvic recurrences after fluid minihysteroscopy in women with endometrial carcinoma: a controlled randomized study. Concerns exist about the risk of endometrial cancer cells spreading into the peritoneal cavity after fluid minihysteroscopy. The aim of our study was to evaluate the 5-year incidence of pelvic recurrences in women affected by early-stage endometrial carcinoma (stage IA or IB) who did or did not undergo preoperative hysteroscopy with low pressure (<70 mm Hg) saline uterine distention.A total of 140 women were randomized into two groups of 70 women who underwent or did not undergo diagnostic fluid minihysteroscopy before surgical staging. Women were followed up every 6 months for at least 5 years. Diagnosis of pelvic recurrence was based on a positive result at clinical examination and/or at vaginal cytology and/or at magnetic resonance imaging/positron emission tomography scan. Univariate analysis of disease-free survival was performed with the Kaplan-Meier method and survival curves were compared using the long-rank test.No difference in peritoneal cytology was observed between the two groups (5.7% and 8.5% of cases in the hysteroscopy and control group, respectively). After a mean duration of follow-up of 62 months, 2 (2.85%) pelvic recurrences in the hysteroscopy group and 3 (4.28%) in the control group were found. No significant difference was found between the two groups when the recurrence rate was compared. Overall survival rates and disease-free survival projected by Kaplan-Meier curves were not significantly different for the two groups.Preoperative low-pressure fluid minihysteroscopy does not increase the risk of intraperitoneal transport of endometrial carcinoma cells during the examination or the risk of pelvic recurrence at the 5-year follow-up. It does not seem to modify the recurrence rate, disease-free survival, and overall survival, although multicenter randomized trials and long-term follow-up are required to evaluate the overall oncologic outcomes of this procedure.