Comparison of digital subtraction angiography, CT angiography, and ultrasonic Doppler examination in the evaluation of penile arterial lesions. CT angiography reconstructed by a multidetector-row helical CT scanner is a newly developed form of imaging. We compared CT angiography and ultrasonic Doppler examination with digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in the diagnosis of arterial lesion.Eighteen patients with arteriogenic erectile dysfunction (ED) underwent color Doppler study, DSA, and CT angiography after providing informed consent. The CT angiography images were obtained by a multidetector-row helical CT scanner, Asteion TSX021A (TOSHIBA). We injected prostaglandin E1 into the penile cavernous body, and then rapidly infused nonionic contrast medium into the antecubital vein. DSA and CT angiography images of the bilateral internal pudendal arteries and cavernous arteries were examined for stenotic lesions or occlusion. We also compared the peak systolic blood flow velocity in the cavernous artery measured by color Doppler ultrasound with CT angiography and DSA.The CT angiography and color Doppler studies were performed on an outpatient basis, but DSA required hospitalization. In the 36 internal pudendal arteries, DSA represented 22 normal arteries and 14 stenosis or occlusions. CT angiography showed 15 normal arteries and 21 occlusions. For the diagnosis of stenosis or occlusion in the internal pudendal artery, the CT angiography image had a good agreement, with a sensitivity of 1.00, specificity of 0.68, and accuracy of 0.81. For diagnosis in the cavernous artery, CT angiography image also showed a good agreement with DSA however, the quality of the images of fine arteries was better in the DSA images. The inferior view and internal view of the pelvis in CT angiography were helpful for visualizing the internal pudendal artery, especially at the pubic bone. There was insufficient correlation between peak systolic blood flow velocity and DSA findings. There were no serious complications involved in either examination.CT angiography has not yet reached the same level as DSA in the evaluation of fine arteries. However, CT angiography can produced images sufficient for the diagnosis of arteriogenic ED with some advantages. We believe that with improvement, CT angiography will become an adequate replacement for DSA in the diagnosis of penile arterisl lesion.