Levels of haemostatic factors, arteriosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. Plasma levels of haemostasis factors (HFs) such as fibrinogen, tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA), plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) and D-dimer may be markers of arteriosclerosis for the following reasons: There seems to be no difference in levels of HFs between patients with longstanding stable angina and those with an isolated myocardial infarction. HF levels are generally positively associated with subclinical arteriosclerosis as determined by ankle-arm index and carotid ultrasonography in asymptomatic individuals. Levels of most HFs are positively associated with inflammation, which is an essential part of the initiation and progression of the disease. A rough classification is assigned to the associations found in under (2) and (3). Fibrinogen is strongly associated with subclinical arteriosclerosis and with inflammation Factor VII is not, while an intermediate group is formed by, for instance, von Willebrand Factor (vWF), Factor VIII (F VIII), t-PA, PAI-1, and D-dimer. Also, the associations of HFs with cardiovascular events follow a similar pattern. Fibrinogen is a strong and consistent risk factor in several studies, Factor VII is not, and a similar intermediate group as mentioned under (2) and (3) exists. It suggests that the risk of cardiovascular events in relation to HF levels is explained by their identity as markers of arteriosclerosis. A causal association between HF levels and the disease is not proven. Out of the HF, the markers of coagulation such as thrombin-antithrombin complex and of fibrinolysis such as D-dimer are more likely to act causally. Increased levels indicate that they are markers of arteriosclerosis, but in addition, they may reflect a low-grade, continuous formation and subsequent lysis of fibrin in the disease. As the latter reflects an increased tendency to thrombosis, a causal association of levels of markers of coagulation and fibrinolysis with arteriosclerosis, although not yet proven, seems likely.