Various issues relating to computational fluid dynamics simulations of carotid bifurcation flow based on models reconstructed from three-dimensional ultrasound images. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) flow simulation techniques have the potential to enhance understanding of how haemodynamic factors are involved in atherosclerosis. Recently, three-dimensional ultrasound has emerged as an alternative to other three-dimensional imaging techniques, such as magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). The method can be used to generate accurate vascular geometry suitable for CFD simulations and can be coupled with Doppler ultrasound to provide physiologically realistic flow boundary conditions. However, there are various ways to utilize the flow data acquired, possibly leading to different results regarding both flow and wall shear stress patterns. A disadvantage of three-dimensional ultrasound for imaging the carotid bifurcation has been established as being the scanning limitation of the jawbone position. This may make artificial extensions of the internal and/or external carotid arteries necessary, which in turn may influence the predicted flow patterns. Flow simulations were carried out for three outflow calculation schemes as well as four geometries with different extensions to the carotid daughter vessels. It was found that variation of flow patterns was more strongly influenced by the outflow conditions than by the extensions of the daughter vessels. Consequently, it is recommended that for future CFD simulations of carotid flow using three-dimensional ultrasound data, the outflow boundary conditions should rely on the most accurate measurement available, and flow data recorded in the common and internal carotid are considered more reliable than data from the external carotid. Even though the extended lengths of the daughter vessels have insignificant effects on the predicted haemodynamic parameters, it would be a safer option to extend the internal carotid by approximately three times the diameter of the common carotid artery.