Impaired health status and invasive treatment in peripheral arterial disease: a prospective 1-year follow-up study. It has been argued that health status and quality of life (QOL) should be taken into account in the treatment policy of patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD). In cardiac patients, it has been shown that poor perceived health status is an independent predictor of mortality and hospitalization. We therefore examined (1) the role of health status, QOL, and clinical indices of disease severity as determinants of invasive treatment in patients with PAD and (2) the effect of invasive treatment on health status and QOL.At their first visit, patients completed the RAND 36-item Health Survey and World Health Organization Quality of Life assessment instrument questionnaires to assess health status and QOL, respectively. During the 1-year follow-up period, data concerning hospitalization were derived from the patients' medical files. Furthermore, patients completed the RAND 36 and the World Health Organization Quality of Life assessment instrument again at 1-year follow-up. The setting was a vascular outpatient clinic of a teaching hospital in Tilburg, The Netherlands participants were 200 consecutive patients newly diagnosed with intermittent claudication, a common expression of PAD. Diagnosis was based on history, physical examination, treadmill walking distance, and ankle-brachial pressure indices. Main outcome measures were (1) invasive treatment of PAD that took place during the 1-year follow-up, derived from the patients' medical files, and (2) health status and QOL after 1 year of follow-up.After 1 year of follow-up, 107 patients (53.5%) were event free, whereas 77 patients (38.5%) had been hospitalized for invasive treatment of PAD. Sixteen patients (8%) were hospitalized for other cardiovascular reasons. In a multivariate logistic regression model, age (odds ratio [OR], 0.95 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.91-0.99Patients with poor self-reported physical functioning, limited walking distance, and a younger age were likely to be treated invasively. The physician's clinical judgment about when to intervene adequately reflects the patient's own opinion about his or her health status. Invasive treatment led to a significant improvement in patients' health status. These findings indicate the effectiveness of the strategy to include patients' perceived physical functioning into the process of clinical decision-making.