Angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitor improves reactive hyperemia in elderly hypertensives with arteriosclerosis obliterans. Endothelial function in elderly hypertensive patients with arteriosclerosis obliterans has not been evaluated. We examined whether antihypertensive drugs improve vasodilatory response to reactive hyperemia of the limbs in elderly hypertensive patients (83 +/- 8 [SD] years) without (n=46, 0.9 < or = ankle-brachial pressure index < or = 1.4) and with (n=24) arteriosclerosis obliterans (ankle-brachial pressure index < 0.2). Patients were randomized for treatment with monotherapy of either temocapril (14 with and 26 without arteriosclerosis obliterans) or amlodipine (10 with and 20 without arteriosclerosis obliterans) for 6 months. Blood flows of the forearms and legs were measured by strain-gauge plethysmography. The vasodilatory response to the release of compression of the forearms and thighs at 200 mmHg or 20 mmHg more than systolic blood pressure for 5 min and to sublingual administration of nitroglycerin (0.3 mg) was assessed. The maximum reactive hyperemic flow in 35 legs with arteriosclerosis obliterans was significantly (p < 0.001) decreased compared to the value in legs in the control hypertensive subjects. Moreover, maximum reactive hyperemic flow in the forearms of patients with arteriosclerosis obliterans was significantly (p = 0.002) decreased compared to that in the control subjects. Blood pressure was similarly decreased by treatment with temocapril or amlodipine. Response to nitroglycerin (0.3 mg) was not changed by either drug. Treatment with temocapril significantly improved maximum reactive hyperemic flow of not only the legs and forearms in control hypertensives but also the legs and forearms in patients with arteriosclerosis obliterans, and attenuated the worsening of activity of daily living in these patients, although treatment with amlodipine did not. These results suggest that the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor temocapril has a beneficial effect on endothelial function in elderly patients with arteriosclerosis obliterans.