Diagnosis and interventional radiological treatment of vascular and biliary complications after liver transplantation in children with biliary atresia. Early diagnosis and appropriate management of vascular and biliary complications after living donor liver transplantation (LDLT) result in longer survival. We report our institutional experience regarding radiological management of these complications among patients with biliary atresia (BA) who underwent LDLT.We analyzed the records of 116 children. All patients underwent Doppler ultrasound (US) at operation, daily for the first 2 postoperative weeks, and when necessary thereafter. After primary evaluation using US, the definite diagnosis of postoperative complication was confirmed using computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and/or operation.There were 61 boys and 55 girls. The overall mean age was 2.69 years. The overall mean preoperative weight and height were 13.06 kg and 83.79 cm, respectively. There were 28 (24.13%) biliary and vascular complications. These were cases of biliary stricture (n = 5), bile leakage (n = 3), hepatic artery stenosis (n = 6), hepatic vein stenosis (n = 4), and portal vein thrombosis (n = 17). The diagnostic accuracy of US in detecting biliary complication, hepatic artery stenosis, hepatic venous stenosis, and portal vein thrombosis was 95.69%, 97.41%, 100%, and 100%, respectively. US in combination with multiple imaging modalities and clinical suspicion resulted in 100% diagnostic accuracy. Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography, thrombolysis, balloon angioplasty, and stent placement were performed for the complications noted. There was an early mortality due to multiple-organ failure after failed radiological invention and subsequent surgical management.Doppler US is accurate in detecting postoperative complications after pediatric LDLT for BA. Radiological interventions for vascular and biliary complications are effective and safe alternatives to reconstructive surgery.