Overview of the most frequent clinical manifestations of peripheral arterial occlusive disease in the elderly, its diagnosis and stage-related therapy. The peripheral artery occlusive disease is a widely spread disease and its diagnosis, treatment options and consequences are frequently underestimated. Especially for the old patient, preservation of an extremity may mean mobility and quality of life. The increasing life expectancy and behaviour of prosperity including a lack of mobility are causing a rise in the frequence of atherosclerotic diseases. The prevalence of occlusive vascular diseases in patients between 55 to 64 years of age is currently 11% and is, therefore, a wide-spread disease. However, the socio-economic relevance of the occlusive vascular diseases is frequently underestimated. It causes both very high direct costs (treatment procedures, prostheses etc) as well as high indirect costs (permanent disability). Therefore, early diagnosis and treatment plays an important role in the avoidance of a progression of the disease. For an early diagnosis of the stage I of occlusive vascular diseases it makes sense to examine the vessels of patients at risk (i.e. diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, nicotine abuse, and overweight). Dopplerultra-sound and oscillometry are highly sensitive and specific diagnostic measures. The eradication of risk factor and the treatment of the secondary diseases plays the most important role in this disease stage without symptoms. A specific vessel training is indicated during stage II to encourage the development of collateral blood flow. Additionally, an interventional diagnostic and therapy should be considered in this stage with limitations in the daily activities. The administration of vasoactive drugs is controversly discussed. The acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) is remaining the most investigated substance for reducing the progress of the arteriosclerotic process. The administration of ticlopidine is justified in cases of ASA-allergies. The stages III and IV are characterized by pain at rest and necrosis. Firstly, the indication for a transcutaneous transluminal angioplasty, thrombolysis or bypass-surgery should be proofed. If procedures of revascularization are not possible, prostaglandines may improve the pain at rest and wound healing. Beside the stage of the occlusive vascular disease, the presence of risk factors, the physical status of the patient, and the location of the occlusion are of great importance for the decision about the treatment procedure.