<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-11-28</DATELINE><TITLE>Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome as an Organ Phenotype of Vascular Microthrombotic Disease: Based on Hemostatic Theory and Endothelial Molecular Pathogenesis</TITLE><BODY>Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a life-threatening noncardiogenic circulatory disorder of the lungs associated with critical illnesses such as sepsis, trauma, and immune and collagen vascular disease. Its mortality rate is marginally improved with the best supportive care. The demise occurs due to progressive pulmonary hypoxia and multi-organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) with severe inflammation. Complement activation is a part of immune response against pathogen or insult in which membrane attack complex (MAC) is formed and eliminates microbes. If complement regulatory protein such as endothelial CD59 is underexpressed, MAC may also cause pulmonary vascular injury to the innocent bystander endothelial cell of host and provokes endotheliopathy that causes inflammation and pulmonary vascular microthrombosis, leading to ARDS. Its pathogenesis is based on a novel “two-path unifying theory” of hemostasis and “two-activation theory of the endothelium” promoting molecular pathogenesis. Endotheliopathy activates two independent molecular pathways: inflammatory and microthrombotic. The former triggers the release inflammatory cytokines and the latter promotes exocytosis of unusually large von Willebrand factor multimers (ULVWF) and platelet activation. Inflammatory pathway initiates inflammation, but microthrombotic pathway more seriously produces “microthrombi strings” composed of platelet-ULVWF complexes, which become anchored on the injured endothelial cells, and causes disseminated intravascular microthrombosis (DIT). DIT is a hemostatic disease due to lone activation of ULVWF path without activated tissue factor path. It leads to endotheliopathy-associated vascular microthrombotic disease (EA-VMTD), which orchestrates consumptive thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and MODS. Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP)-like syndrome is the hematologic phenotype of EA-VMTD. ARDS is one of organ phenotypes among MODS associated with TTP-like syndrome. The most effective treatment of ARDS can be achieved by counteracting the activated microthrombotic pathway based on two novel hemostatic theories.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>