Calculating blood flow from Doppler measurements in the systemic-to-pulmonary artery shunt after the Norwood operation: a method based on computational fluid dynamics. Hypoplastic left heart syndrome is currently the most lethal cardiac malformation of the newborn infant. Survival following a Norwood operation depends on the balance between systemic and pulmonary blood flow, which is highly dependent on the fluid dynamics through the interposition shunt between the two circulations. We used computational fluid dynamic (CFD) models to determine the velocity profile in a systemic-to-pulmonary artery shunt and suggested a simplified method of calculating the blood flow in the shunt based on Doppler measurements. CFD models of systemic-to-pulmonary shunts based on the finite element method were studied. The size of the shunt has been varied from 3 to 5 mm. Velocity profiles at proximal and distal positions were evaluated and correlations between maximum and mean spatial velocity were found. Twenty-one Doppler measurements in the proximal and distal part of the shunt were obtained from six patients with hypoplastic left heart syndrome. Combining Doppler velocities and CFD velocity profiles, blood flow rate in the shunt was calculated. Flow rate evaluated from aortic Doppler and oxygen saturation measurements were performed for comparison. Results showed that proximal shunt Doppler velocities were always greater than the correspondent distal ones (ratio equal to 1.15 +/- 0.11). CFD models showed a similar behaviour (ratio equal to 1.21 +/- 0.03). CFD models gave a V(mean)/V(max) ratio of 0. 480 at the proximal junction and of 0.579 at the distal one. The agreement between the flow evaluated in the proximal and distal areas of the shunt was good (0.576 +/- 0.150 vs. 0.610 +/- 0.166 l/min). Comparison of these data with saturation data and aortic Doppler measurements correlate less well (0.593 +/- 0.156 vs. 1.023 +/- 0.493 l/min). A formula easily to quantify shunt flow rate is proposed. This could be used to evaluate the effects of different therapeutic and pharmacological manoeuvres in this unique circulation.