Regional transcranial oximetry with near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) in comparison with measuring oxygen saturation in the jugular bulb in infants and children for monitoring cerebral oxygenation. Using a dual channel near infrared (NIR) in vivo optical spectroscopy (INVOS) system (INVOS 3100A, Somanetics Corp. Troy, MI, USA) we investigated the relationship between jugular venous oxygen saturation (SjvO2) and regional cerebral oxygen saturation (rSO2) in 30 infants and children (mean age 4.5 years) with congenital heart disease undergoing cardiac catheterisation. The NIRS-SomaSensor (emitter and dual receiver probe) was applied at a standardised right fronto-temporal location (over the right frontal cortex) on the infant's head and covered with an adhesive flexible bandage. Using NIR light (730 and 810 nm) and two source-detector spacings (3 and 4 cm from the transmitter), percentage values of rSO2 were calculated from detected haemoglobin saturations. Simultaneously, jugular venous oxygen saturation (SjvO2) monitoring was performed via a catheter placed in the right internal jugular vein with its tip positioned in the jugular bulb, as verified by fluoroscopy. To compare the reliability of NIRS measurement characteristics, jugular venous blood was analysed for SjvO2 as a reference measure of global cerebral oxygenation, by co-oximetry (OSM3-Hemoximeter, Radiometer Copenhagen, Denmark). Other measured variables included pulse oximetry, arterial blood pressure, and venous and arterial oxygen saturations. Over a jugular venous oxygen saturation range of 31-83%, a significant positive linear correlation was found between rSO2 (NIRS measurement) and SjvO2 (jugular bulb oximetry) (r = 0.93, p < 0.001). No significant correlation was observed between rSO2 values and arterial blood saturation or pulse oximetry. The quantitative correlation between rSO2 (haemoglobin oxygenation in a small hemi-elliptical area of the brain) and reference SjvO2 measurement (method for monitoring global cerebral oxygenation) suggests that NIRS measurement with subtraction algorithm should identify predominantly intracranial saturation in the pediatric age group, and will tend to reflect global oxygenation under physiological conditions. Transcranial oximetry using dual receiving channel NIRS offers a noninvasive, real-time, reliable and practicable means of monitoring cerebral haemoglobin oxygenation changes infants and children with cyanotic and noncyanotic congenital heart disease.