Surgical treatment of complex cardiac anomalies: the 'one and one half ventricle repair'. One and one half ventricle repair is a surgical option for congenital cardiac anomalies characterised by right ventricle (RV) hypoplasia and/or dysplasia.From March 1994 to March 2001, eight patients (mean age 9.1 years, range 7 months to 35 years) with hypoplastic and/or dysplastic RV underwent correction of their intracardiac anomaly in association with a BCPS (one and one half ventricle repair). Preoperative diagnoses included: Ebstein's anomaly of tricuspid valve (TV) in two, inlet ventricular septal defect (VSD) in association with straddling/overriding TV in two patients, pulmonary atresia-intact ventricular septum in one, tertralogy of Fallot in association with complete atrioventricular canal defect in one, truncus arteriosus in one and heterotaxy syndrome with VSD and anomalous systemic venous return in one. Four patients underwent previous surgery which included: main pulmonary artery (MPA) banding in two patients, pulmonary valvotomy, central shunt and right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction in one, pulmonary artery separation from truncus arteriosus and modified Blalock-Taussig shunt in one, and MPA closure in one. Two patients underwent a bidirectional cavo-pulmonary shunt before the one and a one half ventricle repair. Associated cardiac lesions were treated simultaneously.There were no hospital deaths. All the patients were discharged home in good clinical conditions. There were no late deaths or reoperations. At mean follow-up of 29.8 months (range 8 months to 7.3 years) all the patients are alive and in good general conditions. MPA percutaneous balloon dilation was performed in two patients at 33 and 4 months, respectively, both after MPA reconstruction (which was previously ligated) and dilation of the left pulmonary artery branch in one patient, repeated twice at 10 and 14 months from repair, for a hypoplastic left pulmonary artery after truncus arteriosus repair.Surgical treatment of congenital cardiac anomalies in the presence of a hypoplastic and or a dysplastic RV by means of one and one half ventricle repair has the advantage of reducing the surgical risk for biventricular repair, and compared to the Fontan circulation, it maintains a low right atrium pressure, a pulsatile pulmonary blood flow and improves the systemic oxygen saturation. Short and medium-term results are promising. Longer follow-up is needed, to prove the efficacy of such a repair, in the long term.