Vascular endothelial growth factor in children with congenital heart disease. Children with cyanotic congenital heart disease may experience the development of abnormal vessels that become a source of significant morbidity. Abnormal vessel proliferation in these children may take several forms, including systemic-to-pulmonary collateral arteries, systemic-to-pulmonary venous collaterals, systemic venous collateral channels after bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis, and pulmonary arteriovenous malformations. However, no entity responsible for these abnormalities has been identified yet. This study determined whether children with cyanotic congenital heart disease have elevated serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and whether elevated VEGF correlated with these abnormal vessels.Mean systemic room air oxygen saturation (SpO2), blood cell counts (RBC), and serum VEGF levels were measured preoperatively. Samples were obtained from 61 children with acyanotic heart disease (group N) and 102 children with cyanotic heart disease (group C) before cardiac surgery. Postoperative catheterization was performed 1-month after the operation to evaluate the abnormal vessels in group C.The VEGF level was significantly elevated in group C (355.0 +/- 287.1 pg/mL) compared with group N (203.0 +/- 221.6 pg/mL p < 0.001). VEGF levels in patients with a single ventricle associated with asplenia syndrome (n = 7) in group C were significantly elevated (711.9 +/- 443.5 pg/mL) compared with other patients. There was no significant correlation between VEGF level and SpO2 or RBC. Abnormal vessels were diagnosed in 19.6% (20/102) patients in group C. There was no difference in VEGF levels between the patients with abnormal vessels (336.8 +/- 182.5 pg/mL) and the patients without abnormal vessels (359.1 +/- 306.8 pg/mL).Children with cyanotic heart disease have elevated systemic levels of VEGF, especially in those patients with a single ventricle associated with asplenia syndrome. There was no significant relationship in VEGF levels between the patients with abnormal vessels and without these vessels.