Airway obstruction caused by large blood vessel anomalies: assessment by flexible bronchoscopy. To evaluate the diagnostic value and safety of flexible bronchoscopy in congenital great vessel diseases complicated with airway compression.The medical records of patients with great vessels abnormalities who were admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) from October 2005 to June 2009 were retrospectively reviewed 34 cases were diagnosed as airway compression by flexible bronchoscopy, 10 cases as vascular ring, 24 cases as aortal arch obstruction. The age of the patients was 6 d - 11 m, body weight 2.2 - 8.7 kg [(4.6 +/- 1.4) kg]. Recorded airway abnormalities detected by bronchoscopy and CT, cardiac vascular defects and airway compression were consistent with the findings on operation. The relation between the airway compression and cardiac vascular abnormalities, treatment of the airway compression and outcome were analysed.Bronchoscopic assessment was successfully performed in NICU or operating room for all the patients. (1) Initial presentation of the 34 cases were tachypnea, stridor, refractory lung infection and prolonged mechanical ventilation. (2) Extrinsic compression was found in all the 10 cases with vascular ring by bronchoscopy initially which indicated vascular ring, airway compression was mainly of lower part of trachea. Diagnosis of 9 cases was consistent with CT diagnosis and in 1 case the diagnosis was confirmed by surgery among these cases, 7 had congenital tracheal stenosis. (3) In the 24 cases with aortic obstructive lesion, 5 were detected to have tracheal stenosis by CT before correction of vascular abnormality, among whom one case was indicated to have tracheal stenosis by bronchoscopy, the other 19 cases were found with airway compression by bronchoscopy during or after vascular correction. Among the 24 cases, 21 had left main bronchial stenosis, 2 had congenital tracheal stenosis. Airway compression diagnosed by bronchoscopy agreed with the findings of CT. Two cases developed transient decrease of oxygen saturation, 5 cases developed transient tachycardia.Flexible bronchoscopy plays an important role in assessment of the airway compression complicated with great vessel abnormalities. Bronchoscopy is an accurate, convenient, safe and rapid way for airway assessment, but further examination of the peripheral structure and vascular malformation need combined examination with CT.