Longevity of neonatal ductal stenting for congenital heart diseases with duct-dependent pulmonary circulation. Ductal stent (DS) in duct-dependent pulmonary circulation is less morbid than neonatal Blalock-Taussig shunt. However, there is concern if DS provides an adequately long palliation before definitive repair.This is a retrospective review of clinical follow-up of all consecutive infants after successful DS performed by a single operator. They were divided into three anatomic groups. Group A neonates had balloon valvotomy for critical pulmonary stenosis or pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum, who needed DS patency until the right ventricle was adequate to provide antegrade pulmonary flows. Group B patients with tetralogy of Fallot and pulmonary atresia suited for later biventricular repair needed ductal patency until conduit surgery was completed. Group C patients with functionally univentricular hearts needed DS patency until bidirectional Glenn shunt completion.Among 22 infants, four Group A patients followed for 26-54 months after balloon pulmonary valvotomy had adequate oxygen saturation and needed only short-term DS patency. In six out of nine Group B patients, corrective biventricular repair using conduits was performed after 5-14 months at a body weight of 5-7.5 kg. Bidirectional Glenn shunt and confluence repair were performed in seven of nine Group C patients weighing 6-8.5 kg after 8-15 months. The hilar pulmonary artery growth in B and C groups was adequate for surgical repair. No patient needed stent redilatations or additional shunts on follow-up for hypoxia. Four patients had sudden death.The short-term patency of DS was adequate after balloon valvotomy for critical pulmonary stenosis or pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum. Duration of palliation by DS was also sufficient in univentricular hearts to allow adequate somatic growth before Glenn surgery. In patients with biventricular anatomy treated by DS, conduit repair had to be performed at a relatively early age. Interstage mortality was 18%.