Anesthesia for heart transplantation in newborn and suckling infants. Special aspects of the hypoplastic left heart syndrome. Paediatric cardiac transplantation (pHTX) has gained widespread acceptance as a therapy in end-stage myocardial failure and some forms of congenital heart disease, particularly hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS). The major problems to the anaesthesiologist in these patients are induction of anaesthesia in infants with HLHS and treatment of pulmonary hypertension in the early post-bypass period. PATIENTS AND METHODS. Anaesthesia for pHTX was performed in 15 children < 1 year of age (4-237 days) 12 suffered from HLHS, 2 from endocardial fibroelastosis, and 1 from dilatative cardiomyopathy. Induction of anaesthesia in patients with HLHS IS a challenge to the anaesthesiologist, as he has to maintain the delicate balance between pulmonary and systemic blood flow. Anaesthesia was induced with fentanyl (10-15 micrograms/kg) and pancuronium (0.2-0.4 mg/kg) and maintained with fentanyl (total dosage 70-100 micrograms/kg). Modification of ventilatory parameters such as FiO2, PaCO2, and airway pressure (PEEP, I:E ratio) was used to influence systemic and pulmonary blood distribution in the pre-bypass period according to changes in haemodynamics (target: O2 saturation approximately 75%-80%, PaCO2 45-50 mmHg). Treatment of pulmonary hypertension in the weaning and early post-bypass period consisted of respiratory (PaCO2 < 30 mmHg) and metabolic alkalinisation (pH 7.45-7.55, BE > +3 mmol/l), the use of prostaglandin E1 (3-6-12 micrograms/kg.h), and the phosphodiesterase inhibitor enoximone (10-15 micrograms/kg.min). Additional positive inotropic support was achieved with dobutamine (5-10 micrograms/kg.min), adrenaline (0.1-0.5 micrograms/kg.min), and/or orciprenaline (0.1-0.2 micrograms/kg.min) and calcium chloride (25-100 mg/kg). RESULTS. Two children died intraoperatively and 1 on the 1st postoperative day from overwhelming pulmonary vascular resistance and right ventricular failure. Three children died between 3 and 4 weeks postoperatively, 1 from cytomegalovirus infection, 1 from sepsis, and 1 from acute rejection. Nine patients survived and are well up to 5.5 years after transplantation. CONCLUSION. Pulmonary hypertension in the weaning and early post-bypass period is the main anaesthesiological problem of pHTX, particularly in children with HLHS. A polypragmatic approach to this problem consisting of alkalinisation, pulmonary vasodilatation, and inotropic support is presented and seems to be effective. Further improvements in concepts of pHTX are limited by the lack of donor organs. Though the experience with pHTX in neonates and infants is growing slowly, it might be a routine procedure from the anaesthesiological point of view within a few years in some selected centres.