<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>1990-06-12</DATELINE><TITLE>Conformational change of the coronavirus peplomer glycoprotein at pH 8.0 and 37 degrees C correlates with virus aggregation and virus-induced cell fusion.</TITLE><BODY>We have obtained biochemical and electron microscopic evidence of conformational changes at pH 8.0 and 37 degrees C in the coronavirus spike glycoprotein E2 (S). The importance of these changes is reflected in the loss of virus infectivity, the aggregation of virions, and increased virus-induced cell fusion at the same pH. Coronavirus (MHV-A59) infectivity is exquisitely sensitive to pH. The virus was quite stable at pH 6.0 and 37 degrees C (half-life, approximately 24 h) but was rapidly and irreversibly inactivated by brief treatment at pH 8.0 and 37 degrees C (half-life, approximately 30 min). Virions treated at pH 8.0 and 37 degrees C formed clumps and large aggregates. With virions treated at pH 8.0 and 37 degrees C, the amino-terminal peptide E2N (or S1) was released from virions and the remaining peptide, E2C (S2), was aggregated. Viral spikes isolated from detergent-treated virions also aggregated at pH 8.0 and 37 degrees C. Loss of virus infectivity and E2 (S) aggregation at pH 8.0 and 37 degrees C were markedly enhanced in the presence of dithiothreitol. On the basis of the effects of dithiothreitol on the reactions of the peplomer, we propose that release of E2N (S1) and aggregation of E2C (S2) may be triggered by rearrangement of intramolecular disulfide bonds. The aggregation of virions and the isolated E2 (S) glycoprotein at pH 8.0 and 37 degrees C or following treatment with guanidine and urea at pH 6.0 and 37 degrees C indicate that an irreversible conformational change has been induced in the peplomer glycoprotein by these conditions. It is interesting that coronavirus-induced cell fusion also occurred under mildly alkaline conditions and at 37 degrees C. Some enveloped viruses, including influenza viruses and alphaviruses, show conformational changes of spike glycoproteins at a low pH, which correlates with fusion and penetration of those viruses in acidified endocytic vesicles. For coronavirus MHV-A59, comparable conformational change of the spike glycoprotein E2 (S) and cell fusion occurred at a mildly alkaline condition, suggesting that coronavirus infection-penetration, like that of paramyxoviruses and lentiviruses, may occur at the plasma membrane, rather than within endocytic vesicles.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>