Detection of pelvic lymph node metastases in gynecologic malignancy: a comparison of CT, MR imaging, and positron emission tomography. Accurate assessment of lymph node status before treatment is critical in the treatment of gynecologic cancers because the 5-year survival and treatment of women is influenced by lymph node involvement. The aims of this study were to investigate the ability of X-ray CT, MR imaging, and (18)F-FDG positron emission tomography (PET) to detect pelvic lymph node metastases by comparing imaging with histopathologic findings after lymph node dissection.Eighteen patients with gynecologic cancers were studied by all three imaging methods before surgery. The images were initially reviewed with routine diagnostic conditions and then, subsequently, by two observers who were unaware of the clinical and histopathologic findings of the patients. The nodal sites were split into upper (aortic to common iliac bifurcations) and lower (common iliac bifurcations to inguinal ligament) iliac chains. All observers' results were statistically analyzed with specificity, sensitivity, positive and negative predictive values, Fisher's exact test (individual observers) or chi-square test (combined observers), and Cohen's kappa test.Eight of 18 patients had lymph node metastases at histology. Findings of all three modalities agreed in full in only one patient. CT correctly revealed 10 node-negative patients, whereas MR imaging was correct in eight of these patients. (18)F-FDG PET correctly depicted one patient with lymph nodes negative for tumor. CT was the most specific imaging modality (97.0%), with MR imaging and PET rendering values of 90.7% and 77.3%, respectively, but sensitivity of all modalities was low (CT, 48.1% MR imaging, 53.7%CT is the most specific modality for detecting lymph nodes positive for tumor in gynecologic cancers, whereas MR imaging is the most sensitive. The poor results of PET in the pelvis are attributed to urinary (18)F-FDG in the ureters or bladder, which may mask or imitate lymph node metastases.