Sleep, consciousness and the spontaneous and evoked electrical activity of the brain. Is there a cortical integrating mechanism? The physiological mechanisms that underlie consciousness and unconsciousness are the sleep/wake mechanisms. Deep sleep is a state of physiological reversible unconsciousness. The change from that state to wakefulness is mediated by the reticular activating mechanism. The reverse change from wakefulness to sleep is also an active process effected by an arousal inhibitory mechanism based on a partial blockade of the thalamus and upper brain stem, associated with thalamic sleep spindles and also with cortical sub-delta activity (<1 Hz). The deactivation of the thalamus has been demonstrated both electrically and by positron emission tomography during deep sleep. Normally, wakefulness is associated with instant awareness (defined as the ability to integrate all sensory information from the external environment and the internal environment of the body). Awareness may be a function of the thalamo-cortical network in the cerebral hemispheres, which forms the final path of the sleep/wake mechanism. Anatomical and physiological studies suggest that there may be a double thalamo-cortical network one relating to cortical and thalamic areas with specific functions and the other global, involving all cortical areas and so-called 'non-specific' thalamic nuclei. The global system might function as a cortical integrating mechanism permitting the spread of information between the specific cortical areas and thus underlying awareness. The global system may also be responsible for much of the spontaneous and evoked electrical activity of the brain. The cognitive change between sleep and wakefulness is accompanied by changes in the autonomic system, the cerebral blood flow and cerebral metabolism. Awareness is an essential component of total consciousness (defined as continuous awareness of the external and internal environment, both past and present, together with the emotions arising from it). In addition to awareness, full consciousness requires short-term and explicit memory and intact emotional responses.