Effect of perindopril on cerebral and renal perfusion on normotensives in mild early ischaemic stroke: a randomized controlled trial. Blood pressure reduction is central to secondary prevention after stroke, but the optimal time to start therapy is unknown. Cerebral autoregulation is impaired early after ischaemic insult, and any changes in systemic blood pressure may be reflected in cerebral perfusion. However, early initiation in hospital may better assure continued long-term treatment. We have investigated the effect of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor perindopril on blood pressure, global and focal cerebral blood flow (CBF) and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in a normotensive acute stroke population.Twenty-five patients within 4-8 days of mild ischaemic stroke/transient ischaemic attack and with diastolic blood pressure 70-90 mm Hg were randomized to receive perindopril 2 or 4 mg daily versus placebo according to estimated GFR. Mean arterial blood pressure (MABP), internal carotid artery (ICA) flow and middle cerebral artery velocity (MCAv) were measured prior to dosing, over the following 24 h and at 2 weeks. Brain hexamethyl propylene amino oxide single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was performed before dosing and at estimated time of peak drug effect (6-8 h after first dose). GFR measurement using a (51)Cr-ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid technique was undertaken prior to medication and repeated at 2 weeks.MABP was reduced throughout the first 24 h with a mean MABP reduction of 9.3 mm Hg (95% CI 7.4-11.3 mm Hg), maximal placebo corrected fall of 12.5 mm Hg at 10 h post-dose, p = 0.005. No significant change occurred in ICA flow, MCAv or CBF measured by SPECT: change from baseline in symptomatic hemisphere CBF was -0.02 (SD 3.11) ml/100 g/min (treated group) compared with 0 (SD 3.01) (placebo group). Similarly, no significant change was observed in cortical CBF. Mean within-group change in GFR was 2.7 +/- 10.1 in the treated group and -4.3 +/- 6.7 in the placebo group (p = NS).Antihypertensive therapy with perindopril may be introduced in the first week after mild ischaemic stroke in normotensive patients without affecting global or regional CBF or affecting GFR.