Fourier-based reconstruction for fully 3-D PET: optimization of interpolation parameters. Fourier-based approaches for three-dimensional (3-D) reconstruction are based on the relationship between the 3-D Fourier transform (FT) of the volume and the two-dimensional (2-D) FT of a parallel-ray projection of the volume. The critical step in the Fourier-based methods is the estimation of the samples of the 3-D transform of the image from the samples of the 2-D transforms of the projections on the planes through the origin of Fourier space, and vice versa for forward-projection (reprojection). The Fourier-based approaches have the potential for very fast reconstruction, but their straightforward implementation might lead to unsatisfactory results if careful attention is not paid to interpolation and weighting functions. In our previous work, we have investigated optimal interpolation parameters for the Fourier-based forward and back-projectors for iterative image reconstruction. The optimized interpolation kernels were shown to provide excellent quality comparable to the ideal sinc interpolator. This work presents an optimization of interpolation parameters of the 3-D direct Fourier method with Fourier reprojection (3D-FRP) for fully 3-D positron emission tomography (PET) data with incomplete oblique projections. The reprojection step is needed for the estimation (from an initial image) of the missing portions of the oblique data. In the 3D-FRP implementation, we use the gridding interpolation strategy, combined with proper weighting approaches in the transform and image domains. We have found that while the 3-D reprojection step requires similar optimal interpolation parameters as found in our previous studies on Fourier-based iterative approaches, the optimal interpolation parameters for the main 3D-FRP reconstruction stage are quite different. Our experimental results confirm that for the optimal interpolation parameters a very good image accuracy can be achieved even without any extra spectral oversampling, which is a common practice to decrease errors caused by interpolation in Fourier reconstruction.