Clinical role of 18F-FDG PET-CT in suspected and potentially operable cholangiocarcinoma: a prospective study compared with conventional imaging. This study was conducted to evaluate the clinical role of integrated positron emission and computed tomography (PET-CT) in patients with suspected and potentially operable cholangiocarcinoma.Between October 2005 and May 2007, 123 patients with suspected cholangiocarcinoma were enrolled in this study after diagnostic workup, including biliary dynamic computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging/magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRI/MRCP) with magnetic resonance (MR) angiography. Patients with overt unresectable cholangiocarcinoma or gallbladder cancer diagnosed via conventional imaging were excluded. Consecutively, each enrolled patient underwent PET-CT. Data were prospectively collected and analyzed in comparison with CT and MRI/MRCP.The overall values for sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV), and accuracy of PET-CT in primary tumor detection were 84.0%, 79.3%, 92.9%, 60.5%, and 82.9%, respectively. PET-CT demonstrated no statistically significant advantage over CT and MRI/MRCP in the diagnosis of primary tumor. According to different morphologic characteristics of cholangiocarcinoma, PET-CT showed no significant difference in detecting those of mass-forming, periductal-infiltrating, and intraductal-growing types. PET-CT revealed significantly higher accuracy over CT in the diagnosis of regional lymph nodes metastases (75.9%vs 60.9%, P= 0.004) and distant metastases (88.3%vs 78.7%, P= 0.004). Additional use of PET-CT for assessing resectability correctly showed different results from those determined by conventional imaging in 15 (15.9%) of 94 patients with cholangiocarcinoma.PET-CT improved the accuracy of preoperative staging in patients with cholangiocarcinoma planning to undergo curative resection. Thus, PET-CT had an important clinical impact on the selection of proper treatment.