Study of scintillating luminescence spectra of lead tungstate scintillation crystal doped with ions. The light yield of the as-grown PbWO4, annealed PbWO4 and BaF2:PbWO4 crystals were raised by utilizing our improved crystal growth instrument and technique. Their scintillating properties including transmittance, decay time and light yield were studied. Results reveal that the scintillating performances of the crystals were improved evidently by using the crystal annealing technique and the ions doping technique, especially the negative ions doping technique. The influence results of the two techniques are different. The ions doping technique raises their transmittance intensity in the whole measuring wavelength range. But the influence of annealing PbWO4 crystal on their transmittance is complicated. It improves its transmittance intensity at the wavelength above 360 nm, but weakens the transmittance intensity of the annealed PbWO4 crystal in the wavelength range from 320 to 360 nm. These phenomena should be related to the crystal defects which have absorption peaks in this wavelength range, especially for V(Pb)3+ defect which has characterized absorption peaks in this wavelength range. Also, the absorption of the defects influences the character of the decay time of these crystals. The big defect concentration relates to the short decay time. It should be mentioned that the ions doping technique reduces the defect content in the crystal, which is beneficial to the high transmittance intensity but induces slightly longer decay time than that of as-grown crystal and well annealed PbWO4 crystal. Also, the ions doping technique of the F- ion doped crystal leads to high light yield. The annealing technique and ions doping technique improve the light yield of crystals. The light yield of BaF2:PbWO4 reaches 65 p.e./MeV, which is near to the requirement of PET. The good result is related to the degeneration of the [WO4]2- tetrahedron induced by the F- occupying the O2- site in the crystal cell.