Cognitive impairment in ARCA-1, a newly discovered pure cerebellar ataxia syndrome. Cerebellar contribution to non-motor functions has been supported by several animal, human and functional neuroimaging studies. Which cognitive skills and to what extent the cerebrocerebellar loops contribute remain unclear, however. Among other reasons, this may be explained by the fact that authors have studied patients with extracerebellar lesions. The goal of this study was to explore the role of the cerebellum in cognition and affect in patients with autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia type 1 (ARCA-1), a newly described inherited cerebellar disease characterised by middle-age onset of ataxia as well as pure, severe and diffuse cerebellar atrophy. To this end, the performance of 21 ARCA-1 patients was compared to that of 21 normal controls paired for age and education on a 3-h battery of attention, executive, visuospatial and memory skills. Results indicated similar IQ, naming and declarative memory abilities between groups. ARCA-1 patients showed significant deficits in attention (attention span, speed of information processing, sustained attention), verbal working memory and visuospatial/visuoconstructional skills (3-D drawings, copy of a complex figure). Functional brain imaging in a subset of patients showed diffuse severe cerebellar hypometabolism associated with a small area of right parietal hypometabolism. None of the patients presented a significant affective syndrome. Correlational analyses suggested that cognitive deficits could not be explained by the severity of motor deficits, duration of disease or mood. Altogether, this study confirms that pure cerebellar damage as seen in ARCA-1 is associated with significant cognitive impairments but not with psychiatric comorbidity. These deficits are correlated with an overall moderate impact on patient's autonomy. Our data favour an indirect participation of the dorsolateral prefrontal and posterior parietal cortical areas to the cerebrocerebellar circuit.