Limitations of Hb F as a phenotypic modifier in sickle cell disease: study of Kuwaiti Arab patients. Sickle cell disease is characterized by phenotypic heterogeneity and many genetic modifiers have been identified with elevated Hb F being the most recognized ameliorating factor. Kuwaiti sickle cell disease patients carry the India/Arab chromosomal haplotype, which is associated with elevated Hb F (on average ~22%) on account of the Xmn1 site in the (G)γ-globin gene promoter. Most patients had either Hb SS or Hb S-β(0)-thalassemia (β(0)-thal) and there are a few Hb SD compound heterozygotes. We have carried out longitudinal clinical studies of these patients to document the pattern of morbidity, spleen function, brain and hip magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for prevalence of silent brain infarcts and avascular necrosis of the femoral head (AVNFH), respectively. In addition, pulmonary function, SPECT (single photon emission computerized tomography) brain cerebral blood flow and response of selected patients to hydroxyurea (HU) treatment were also studied. The Hb SS and Hb S-β-thal patients have a generally mild phenotype compared to sickle cell disease in other populations and most patients do not have their first pain crisis until about the age of 4 years. Spleen function is retained till late childhood pneumococcemia and other severe bacterial infections are rare. Overt stroke and silent brain infarcts are uncommon in childhood (~3% prevalence) although SPECT reveals cerebral blood flow deficits in ~30%. Avascular necrosis of the femoral head is, however, common with a prevalence of ~26% in children and 50% in adults. There is brisk response to HU in patients with frequent pain crises, with marked increases in Hb F levels. Patients who are compound heterozygotes for Hbs S and D-Los Angeles, have the most severe phenotype despite Hb F levels of >20% and Hb S <30%. In conclusion, although the patients have a uniformly elevated Hb F level, there are still considerable phenotypic heterogeneity and other modulating genetic factors that require further studies.