Mapping of human and macaque sensorimotor areas by integrating architectonic, transmitter receptor, MRI and PET data. The human and macaque sensorimotor cortex was subdivided into numerous areas by a correlative analysis based on cytoarchitectonics, myeloarchitecture and the distribution of transmitter receptors. Receptor densities and laminar distribution patterns differ not only between motor and somatosensory regions, but also between different areas within these regions of the cortex. Changes in receptor distribution often match architectonically defined borders. Receptor findings provide new criteria for a more detailed mapping in the human brain which cannot be achieved by cytoarchitectonic analysis alone. Morphological data on these areas were integrated with functional data from positron emission tomography (PET) on the basis of a recently developed computerised brain atlas. The central sulcus marks the border between (1) the agranular motor cortex with a generally low density of glutamatergic, muscarinic, GABAergic and serotoninergic receptors, and (2) the granular somatosensory cortex with higher densities of these receptors. Rostral to the primary motor cortex, 2 isocortical areas are found on the mesial cortex which probably represent the functionally defined supplementary motor areas (SMA) SMA-proper (caudally) and pre-SMA (rostrally). Below SMA-proper the areas 24d (macaque) and the caudal cingulate motor area cmc (human) are located in the cingulate sulcus. Both regions correspond to the 'posterior cingulate motor areas' of recent PET studies and to the posterior part of the agranular cingulate cortex of architectonic studies. Below pre-SMA the area 24c (macaque) and the rostral cingulate motor area cmr (human) are located in the cingulate sulcus they correspond to the 'anterior cingulate motor areas' of recent PET observations and to the anterior part of the agranular cingulate cortex of architectonic studies. Homologous sensorimotor areas can be defined in both species on the basis of common architectonic features.