New concepts and paradigms in cardiovascular medicine: the noninvasive management of coronary artery disease. Coronary atherosclerosis is a diffuse heterogeneous process that occurs throughout the length of epicardial coronary arteries. Myocardial infarction and unstable coronary syndromes are caused most commonly by plaque rupture of lipid rich, less severe coronary artery stenoses. Vigorous cholesterol lowering by low fat food and lipid active drugs, control of hypertension, and smoking abstinence stabilize plaque and markedly reduce coronary events and angina pectoris with greater improvement in survival than reported for elective invasive revascularization procedures. The term "regression" or "reversal" of coronary artery disease (CAD) as used clinically incorporates the spectrum of beneficial changes in plaque composition and pathology, modest improvement in anatomic severity, endothelial healing, increased coronary flow and flow capacity, decreased symptoms, and improved survival. Standard coronary arteriography and standard noninvasive diagnostic tests (as commonly used) are inadequate for identifying or assessing severity of diffuse CAD. Newer technology or approaches using noninvasive positron emission tomography (PET), invasive intravascular ultrasound or pressure or flow velocity guide wires provide important new insights into the presence and severity of both segmental and diffuse CAD. Revascularization procedures may be beneficial in selected, restricted circumstances, primarily for 3-vessel disease and reduced left ventricular function and for "hibernating" or "stunned" myocardium. However, the benefits of revascularization procedures on survival in patients with good left ventricular function have not been convincingly documented, with substantive evidence that adverse outcomes outweigh the potential benefits. This collective new knowledge provides the basis for a shift in the management of CAD from an invasive, procedure-oriented viewpoint currently dominant in cardiology toward a noninvasive orientation that views the problem as a graded, continuous, heterogeneously diffuse disease process for which reversal treatment is optimal. Noninvasive management of CAD based on reversal treatment is a valid, safe, effective primary step, but it requires patient and physician knowledge. CAD should be treated immediately at the time of a firm diagnosis by simultaneous, vigorous risk factor management, low fat diet and a statin class drug. For control of high-density lipoprotein and triglycerides, other lipid active drugs should be added or substituted for statins if side effects prevent their use. Low fat food and weight control by appropriate caloric carbohydrate restriction are essential for reducing the highly atherogenic postprandial lipid surge that is not affected by statins. This vigorous reversal treatment, with aggressive anti-anginal and anti-platelet management as needed, should be used in every patient with diagnosed CAD before elective revascularization procedures are considered. In the author's experience, the majority of patients will pursue an effective reversal regimen when it is presented and managed appropriately with strong support by a knowledgeable participating physician providing sustained, intense guidance and pharmacologic control. For the minority of patients not responding to vigorous medical treatment or demonstrating progression, coronary arteriography and revascularization procedures are then appropriate.