Primary neoplasms of the jejunum-ileum. The clinico-diagnostic and surgical therapy considerations: the clinical cases and a retrospective study of our experience. Primary tumors of the jejunum-ileum are rare and constitute about 2% of gastrointestinal neoplasms. The first clinically reported small bowel tumor was a jejunal carcinoma described in 1824 by Sorlin. The authors reviewed our surgical experience of 9 patients treated at the Department of General Surgery of the "E. Franchini" Hospital of Montecchio Emilia (Re) during a 13-years period from 1984 to 1997. On the basis of literature on the topic, the following are taken into consideration, the history, the incidence, the epidemiology, the aetiopathogenesis, the clinical characteristics, the diagnostic, the surgical therapy of these tumors. The subjects included 6 males and 3 females. The average age of the patients was 66 years, with a male predominance ratio of 2:1. Of the seven primary malignant tumors observed, two patients had adenocarcinomas, two had leiomyosarcomas, two had lymphomas and one carcinoid. The benign tumors were respectively leiomyomas and small intestinal stromal tumor. The most common signs and symptoms were abdominal pain and obstruction of the intestine. Preoperative diagnosis was established in 4 of these patients only by roentgenographic examinations, in 2 by ultrasound scan, in 2 by ultrasound scan and computed tomography, in 1 by endoscopic examination. All the 9 tumors were resected: in 7 patients (77.7%) the resection were considered as curative and in 2 patients (22.3%) palliative. All operated patients were staged by the TNM-classification using pathological and surgical reports. The staging of the disease was the following: 2 patients with stage 1 (T2N0M0), 2 patients with stage II (T4N0M0), 3 patients with stage III (1 with T3N1M0 and 2 with T4N1M0), 2 patients with stage IV (T4N1M1). Survival correlated with the different TNM stage: the median survival time was 60 months for stage I, 60.5 months for stage II, 40 months for stage III and 18 months for stage IV.