Prospective evaluation of balloon-sheathed catheter US system. Catheter US probes must rely on luminal water to create images because they do not incorporate a water-filled balloon such as that used with a designated echoendoscope. The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness and safety of a balloon sheath for the US catheter system.Catheter EUS was performed on 50 patients by using a 2.3 mm 12 MHz or 20 MHz catheter probe. Catheter EUS was used in 47 cases, and a newly developed water-filled balloon sheath was used in 41 cases. Both devices were used in 39 cases. Procedure time, depth of ultrasound penetration, and a subjective assessment of image quality and ease of use were recorded, along with TMN stage as applicable. Catheter EUS findings were confirmed with a standard radial scanning echoendoscopy (S-EUS) in 18 cases.Catheter probe EUS (C-EUS) and catheter probe plus balloon (CB-EUS) imaging was obtained of 25 esophageal, 8 gastric, 4 rectal, 1 biliary, and 1 duodenal lesion. Time required for the ultrasound portion of the examination was identical with C-EUS and CB-EUS. Depth of penetration increased with CB-EUS with both the 12 MHz and 20 MHz probes (p < 0.05). Subjective assessment of image clarity improved when CB-EUS was used in the esophagus. C-EUS failed to identify 2 esophageal cancers and 2 sets of paraesophageal lymph nodes, and understaged 1 esophageal cancer. The remaining 14 cancers were staged identically by both modalities. The catheter probes with and without the balloon sheath were easy to use, even in markedly narrow esophageal strictures. CB-EUS did not significantly improve resolution in the stomach or rectum. S-EUS confirmed findings of CB-EUS in all 18 cases in which both instruments were used. There were no procedure-related complications.For esophageal lesions, CB-EUS improves images compared with C-EUS, and enhances depth of penetration without prolonging or encumbering the examination. CB-EUS offers no advantage over C-EUS in organs other than the esophagus. S-EUS, when possible, remains the preferred imaging modality for esophageal cancers because of the ability to image the celiac axis and other deep structures.