Aggressive Burkitt-like lymphoma of colon in a patient with prior celiac disease. Celiac disease (CD) and immunosuppression are the two risk factors for gastrointestinal, as well as non-gastrointestinal, non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL). Recent large retrospective studies confirm that celiac disease significantly increases risk of developing small bowel lymphomas by 30 to 40 percent and other gut malignancies by 83-fold.A 75-year-old man with a history of CD of two-year duration presented with pallor, fatigue, and 20-pound weight loss of three weeks duration. There was a vague non-tender mass in the right hypochondrium, and his stools tested positive for occult blood. The lab values were within normal range, except for hemoglobin of 11mg/dL, MCV 75, mildly elevated SGOT of 61 IU/L, and LDH of about 5000 IU/L. Work-up including computerized tomography (CT) scan, positron emission tomography (PET) scan, and colonoscopy were performed.A CT scan of the abdomen showed extensive carcinomatosis, scattered lymphadenopathy, and small pleural effusions. PET scan results coincided with CT findings. Colonoscopy revealed a friable nodular mass in the hepatic flexure, histopathology of which confirmed a high-grade B-cell lymphoma. Flow cytometry following immunostaining was positive for CD10, CD19, CD20, CD45, CD79a, and Ki-67. FISH assay demonstrated t (14:18) translocation and bcl-2 rearrangement. The bone marrow biopsy showed evidence of disease. The patient was treated with rituximab, plus cyclophosphamide, Adriamycin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP-R), with intrathecal methotrexate prophylaxis. Currently, the patient remains in remission.This is the first case of aggressive Burkitt-like lymphoma (BLL) occurring in a patient with celiac disease in his eighth decade of life. It is possible that chronic inflammation, profound immunosuppression, and nutritional deficit could lead to development of high-grade B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders. Further molecular studies are warranted to the investigate the link between certain polymorphisms of human leukocyte antigens (HLA) in B-cell populations in the gut, and this might be useful to identify high-risk individuals in the population of patients with CD.