Right hepatic trisectionectomy for hepatobiliary diseases: results and an appraisal of its current role. To assess the results of 275 patients undergoing right hepatic trisectionectomy and to clarify its current role.Right hepatic trisectionectomy is considered one of the most extensive liver resections, and few reports have described the long-term results of the procedure.Short- and long-term outcomes of 275 consecutive patients who underwent right hepatic trisectionectomy from January 1993 to January 2006 were analyzed.Of the 275 patients, 160 had colorectal metastases, 49 had biliary tract cancers, 20 had hepatocellular carcinomas, 20 had other metastatic tumors, and 12 had benign diseases. Fourteen of the 275 patients underwent right hepatic trisectionectomy as part of auxiliary liver transplantation for acute liver failure and were excluded. Concomitant procedures were carried out in 192 patients: caudate lobectomy in 45 patients, resection of tumors from the liver remnant in 57 patients, resection of the extrahepatic biliary tree in 45 patients, and lymphadenectomy in 45 patients. One-, 3-, 5-, and 10-year survivals were 74%, 54%, 43%, and 36%, respectively. Overall hospital morbidity and 30-day and in-hospital mortalities were 41%, 7%, and 8%, respectively. Survivals for individual tumor types were acceptable, with 5-year survivals for colorectal metastasis and cholangiocarcinoma being 38% and 32%, respectively. Multivariate analysis disclosed the amount of intraoperative blood transfusion to be the sole independent predictor for the development of hospital morbidity. Age over 70 years, preoperative bilirubin levels, and the development of postoperative renal failure were found to be independent predictors of long-term survival.Right hepatic trisectionectomy remains a challenging procedure. The outcome is not influenced by additional concomitant resection of tumors from the planned liver remnant. Caution must be taken when considering patients older than 70 years for such resections.