The use of transvaginal ultrasound following voluntary interruption of pregnancy to reduce complications due to incomplete curettage. The aim of the study was to assess by what percentage the use of transvaginal ultrasound (TV, curettage) following voluntary interruption of pregnancy (IVG) reduces the incidence of haemorrhagic events resulting from incomplete drainage of the cavity during the first trimester of gestation.The present is a randomized prospective study involving 720 women who in the period between January 2005 and January 2007 underwent drainage of the cavity during the first trimester of gestation. The study group involved 360 women who were submitted to TV ultrasound using the Toshiba JustVision 400 system at the end of the surgical procedure. The control group also numbered 360 women they, by contrast, did not undergo ultrasound examination at the end of surgery. In the study group, in those cases in which the ultrasound examination carried out with a TV probe highlighted an endometrial rima of thickness 8 mm, recurettage was carried out. Patients then underwent further gynecological and ultrasound control examination, 5-8 days after the surgical procedure.The index of complications overall was 3.2%. Retained products of conception were encountered in 2 women in the study group (0.5%) and in 13 women from the control group (3.6%, P<0.05). Vaginal bleeding requiring hospitalization was observed in 2 women in the study group (0,5%) against 6 in the control group (1.6%, P=0.2). Cases of endometritis were diagnosed in only one woman in the study group (0.3%) against 5 in the control group (1.4%) and uterine perforation occurred in only one woman in the control group versus no case in the study group. There were no cases of retained products of conception in women presenting endometrial thickness <8 mm, a dimension obtained with the aid of ultrasound at the end of the surgical procedure.The use of ultrasound examination, carried out with the aid of a TV probe immediately following uterine drainage during the first trimester of pregnancy, may considerably reduce the incidence both of post-IVG haemorrhages due to incomplete curettage and of the total number of complications. Evaluation of endometrial thickness is of crucial importance. If this turns out to be =8 mm at the end of the surgical procedure, recurettage of the uterine cavity is indicated.