Postpartum eclampsia and fulminant HELLP syndrome. Postpartum onset of eclampsia and HELLP (hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, low platelet count) syndrome is a rare but life-threatening complication for both mother and fetus. A case of a 38-year-old parturient (gravida 2, para 1) who was asymptomatic prior to delivery is reported. Emergency caesarean section had to be performed due to sudden onset of fetal bradycardia as a result of partial placental separation. The perioperative course was characterized by new onset hypertension, nausea and restlessness within 2 h the patient suffered a generalized seizure which was treated with magnesium sulfate and hydralazine. Despite management in accordance with current guidelines, the condition deteriorated with hypotension, anemia and renal failure. On further examination hematomas in the abdominal cavity and walls were identified and laboratory tests confirmed HELLP syndrome with severe coagulopathy. Explorative laparotomy revealed diffuse bleeding without a significant isolated source or postpartum uterine hemorrhage. Retrospectively, the anemia could be ascribed to severe hemolysis and diffuse bleeding from coagulopathy. The patient required packed red cells, platelets, fresh frozen plasma and prothrombin complex. After admission to the intensive care unit persistent diffuse bleeding mainly caused by hyperfibrinolysis and renal failure occurred, which required blood transfusion, antifibrinolytic (tranexamic acid) and renal replacement therapy (continuous veno-venous hemodiafiltration with citrate) for 6 days. The patient recovered without any sequelae and was discharged 26 days later. Placental separation with new onset peripartum hypertension is to be interpreted as a precursor of severe gestosis and associated complications, especially disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), acute renal failure and pleural effusion. A differentiation between a rapid drop in hemoglobin concentration secondary to hemolysis in postpartum HELLP syndrome rather than postpartum hemorrhage can be challenging. In addition, HELLP syndrome can lead to rapidly developing, fulminant hyperfibrinolysis in the context of DIC. Keys to successful management of postpartum gestosis and associated complications are early detection and perception of clinical and laboratory warning signs, a multidisciplinary approach with rapid and consistent targeted symptomatic therapy to save the mother and fetus.