Prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in women with polycystic ovary syndrome and its correlation with metabolic syndrome. The polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is one of the most common endocrine disorders in women at childbearing age. Metabolic syndrome is present from 28% to 46% of patients with PCOS. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is considered the hepatic expression of metabolic syndrome. There are few published studies that correlate PCOS and NAFLD.To determine the prevalence of NAFLD and metabolic syndrome in patients with PCOS, and to verify if there is a correlation between NAFLD and metabolic syndrome in this population.Study developed at Gynecology Department of Clinical Hospital of Federal University of Parana (UFPR). The sessions were conducted from April 2008 to January 2009. One hundred and thirty-one patients joined the analysis 101 were diagnosed with PCOS and 30 formed the control group. We subdivided the PCOS patients into two subgroups: PCOS+NAFLD and PCOS. All the patients were submitted to hepatic sonography. For hepatoestheatosis screening, hepatic ecotexture was compared do spleen's. For diagnosis of metabolic syndrome, we adopted the National Cholesterol Education Program/Adult Treatment Panel III (NCEP/ATP III) criteria, as well as the criteria proposed by International Diabetes Federation. Statistical analysis were performed with t of student and U of Mann-Whitney test for means and chi square for proportions.At PCOS group, NAFLD was present in 23.8% of the population. At control group, it represented 3.3%, with statistical significance (P=0.01). Metabolic syndrome, by NCEP/ATP III criteria, was diagnosed in 32.7% of the women with PCOS and in 26.6% of the women at control group (no statistical difference, P=0.5). At PCOS+DHGNA subgroup, age, weight, BMI, abdominal circumference and glucose tolerance test results were higher when compared to PCOS group (P<0.01). Metabolic syndrome by NCEP/ATPIII criteria was present in 75% and by International Diabetes Federation criteria in 95.8% of women with PCOS+NAFLD with P<0.01. Insulin levels at SOP+DHGNA were higher than at PCOS group with P<0.01.Almost 25% of the patients with PCOS were diagnosed for NAFLD. Metabolic syndrome was present between 32.7% and 44.6% of patients with PCOS. At subgroup PCOS+NAFLD, metabolic syndrome is highly prevalent. These patients are more obese, with higher BMI and higher glucose levels.