Responsiveness of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT2 receptors in the rat orbitofrontal cortex after long-term serotonin reuptake inhibition. The only antidepressant drugs that are effective in the treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) are those that effectively block the reuptake of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine 5-HT). In humans, positron emission tomography studies have implicated the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in the mediation of OCD symptoms. In animals, administration of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) for 8 weeks (but not 3 weeks) led to increased release of 5-HT in the OFC, because of desensitization of the terminal 5-HT autoreceptors. However, the increase in synaptic levels of 5-HT in the OFC after long-term administration of SSRIs might be cancelled out by desensitization of postsynaptic 5-HT receptors. This study was undertaken to investigate if these OFC receptors adapt under such conditions.In vivo electrophysiologic techniques were used in this animal study. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received the SSRI paroxetine or vehicle control, delivered by implanted osmotic minipumps, for 3 or 8 weeks. With the rats under anesthesia, neuronal responsiveness to the microiontophoretic application of various drugs was assessed by determining the number of spikes suppressed per nanoampere of ejection current.After administration of paroxetine for either 3 weeks or 8 weeks, there was no modification in the inhibitory effect of 5-HT, the preferential 5-HT(2A) receptor agonist (+)-1-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-aminopropane hydrochloride (DOI) or the preferential 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist 3-chlorophenyl piperazine dihydrochloride (mCPP). In contrast, the inhibitory effect of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propilamino)-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) was attenuated in the OFC after both 3 and 8 weeks of paroxetine administration.These results indicate a desensitization of postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors in the OFC but a lack of compensatory adaptation of the 5-HT receptor(s) mediating the main effect of 5-HT in this brain region. These observations imply that the activation of normosensitive postsynaptic 5-HT2-like receptors may mediate the effect of enhanced 5-HT release in the OFC.