Diffuse reduction of myocardial beta-adrenoceptors in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: a study with positron emission tomography. This study was conducted to determine the myocardial beta-adrenoceptor density as a marker of sympathetic function in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and normal control subjects.Although some cases of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy are familial with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, there remains a substantial proportion of cases in which neither a family history nor genetic abnormalities can be demonstrated. Additional abnormalities, both genetic and acquired, may be important in the phenotypic expression of this condition. Clinical features of the disease and metabolic studies suggest an increased activity of the sympathetic nervous system.Eleven patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, none of whom had previously received beta-blocking drugs, and eight normal control subjects underwent positron emission tomography to evaluate regional left ventricular beta-adrenoceptor density and myocardial blood flow using carbon-11-labeled CGP 12177 and oxygen-15-labeled water as tracers. Plasma catecholamines were also measured.Mean (+/- SD) myocardial beta-adrenoceptor density was significantly less in the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy group than in the control group (7.70 +/- 1.86 vs. 11.50 +/- 2.18 pmol/g tissue, p < 0.001). Myocardial blood flow was similar in both groups (0.91 +/- 0.22 vs. 0.91 +/- 0.21 ml/min per g, p = NS). The distribution of beta-adrenoceptor density was uniform throughout the left ventricle in both groups. In the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy group, there was no correlation between regional wall thickness and myocardial beta-adrenoceptor density. There were no significant differences in either plasma norepinephrine or epinephrine concentrations between the two groups.There is a diffuse reduction in myocardial beta-adrenoceptor density in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in the absence of significantly elevated circulating catecholamine concentrations. This most likely reflects downregulation of myocardial beta-adrenoceptors secondary to increased myocardial concentrations of norepinephrine and is consistent with the hypothesis that cardiac sympathetic drive is increased in this condition.