Detection of cerebropathy in neurologic and psychiatric diseases. The authors made a comprehensive examination of 16 patients--epileptics, alcoholics, psychotic subjects and patients after cerebral contusion. The patients were subjected to a neurological, psychiatric, psychological examination as well as to a morphological examination (X-ray, CT, NMR), physiological examination (EEG, polysomnography, evoked potentials), immunological examination and SPECT. The majority of patients had positive CT and SPECT findings suggesting focal brain damage. These results could be explained only in exceptional cases by injury, the majority was of unknown aetiology. With this corresponded focal EEG abnormalities and in particular sleep disorders, sometimes subjective but always detectable by objective methods. There was always a shortage of REM, sometimes also NONREM sleep. Half the patients were subjected to an immunological examination which was always positive and comprised elevated acute stage proteins and proteins associated with the stress reaction. Numerous data in the literature and the authors' experience indicate that the mentioned pathological findings are not incidental and form, independently on the aetiology, an integrated unit for which the term cerebropathy can be used. A primary role is played by the epileptic focus and its quality, i.e. above all the rate of discharge and site and humoroergic systems of the brain stem, in particular their efficiency and mutual balance. The events have a programmed sequence. At the beginning an epileptic focus develops which influences the surrounding area, secondary and tertiary foci are formed and the thalamo-cortical system is affected. Soon this is followed by an apparent influence of the epileptic activity on structures of the brain-stem. The consequence are changes affecting sleep, mood, mental performance, immunity, endosecretion and paroxysms. Subsequently individual symptoms are already prepared but have a different latency of manifestation and the latter depends also on external provoking influences. The thalamo-cortical reaction is characterized by the manifestation of epileptic paroxysms and sets in after a different interindividual incubation following injury. The same applies to the hippocampal reaction manifested by the organic psychosyndrome. Some symptoms such as changes of immunity, sleep or endosecretory function are not necessarily manifested if the influence of the focus on structures of the brain-stem is not sufficiently intense. Conversely if the effect on the brain-stem and limbic structures is greater and the effect on the thalamo-cortical system smaller, psychotiform behaviour develops. Then there are marked changes of phoria, dynamogeny, rate, affectivity, sleep and hormonal secretion and its equilibrium.