Differential involvement of calcium channels and protein kinase-C activity in GnRH-induced phospholipase-C, -A2 and -D activation in a gonadotrope cell line (alpha T3-1). The mode of action of GnRH on pituitary gonadotropes involves metabolism of phospholipids, protein kinase-C (PKC) and voltage sensitive Ca2+ channels (VSCC) activation. We have studied the differential role of PKC and VSCC on the coupling of the GnRH receptor with phospholipases-C (PLC), -A2 (PLA2) and -D (PLD) activities in a gonadotrope cell line (alpha T3-1), by measuring the production of inositol phosphates (IPs), arachidonic acid (AA) and phosphatidylethanol (PEt) respectively. We demonstrated that in these cells GnRH stimulated through a specific receptor, IPs formation, a rapid and sustained diacylglycerol generation, consequently AA release and a delayed PEt production in a dose-dependent manner. In contrast to GnRH-induced PLC activity, the PLA2 and PLD stimulation by the neuropeptide involved Ca2+ mobilization via VSCC activation. BAY-K8644 a VSCC agonist significantly potentiated, while the VSCC antagonist nitrendipine markedly inhibited GnRH-induced AA release and PEt production. TPA, a phorbol ester which induced a rapid and important redistribution of PKC, although unable to elicit PLC or PLA2 stimulation, specifically provoked PLD activation in a PKC-dependent but Ca(2+)-independent manner. The PKC stimulation by TPA significantly inhibited the GnRH-stimulated IPs and AA formation, while it potentiated the GnRH-evoked PEt production. This negative feed-back of PKC on GnRH-Induced PLC and PLA2 activities was reversed when PKC was either down regulated after long TPA treatments or inhibited by the PKC inhibitors, staurosporine or GF109203X. The GnRH-induced PEt formation was markedly diminished in PKC depleted cells or after PKC inhibition. Under such conditions, both agonist and antagonist of VSCC became less effective in modulating the remaining GnRH-evoked PEt formation. These results suggest that PKC, in coordination with Ca2+, plays a key role in regulating the cross-talk between the multiple phospholipases implicated in the GnRH signal transduction.