The M4M5 cytoplasmic loop of the Na,K-ATPase, overexpressed in Escherichia coli, binds nucleoside triphosphates with the same selectivity as the intact native protein. Escherichia coli was used to overexpress the large cytoplasmic loop of the rat Na,K-ATPase. A 1260-base DNA segment encoding Lys354-Lys774 of the rat alpha1-subunit was constructed via polymerase chain reaction. The polymerase chain reaction product was successfully subcloned into the expression vector pET-28 (Novagen), which produces an N-terminal 6-histidine-tagged fusion protein. The pET-28 vector containing rat alpha-loop, i.e. pAN, was used to transform calcium-competent E. coli BL21(DE3) cells, and positive clones were selected by kanamycin resistance. Bacterial cultures were grown, and protein synthesis was induced with isopropyl beta-D-thiogalactoside. Cells were harvested and lysed, revealing production of the His-tagged fusion protein ( approximately 46 kDa). The fusion protein was affinity-purified from other soluble cellular proteins via a Ni-NTA column, which routinely yielded approximately 20 mg of soluble His6-alpha-loop/L cell culture. The His6-alpha-loop retained significant native structure, as evidenced by the ability of ATP and ADP (but not AMP, CTP, GTP, or UTP) to protect against chemical modification by either fluorescein isothiocyanate or maleimidylanilinonapthalene sulfonic acid. More specifically, circular dichroism spectroscopy was used to estimate the secondary structure of the His6 loop, revealing an ordered folding composed of 23% alpha-helix, 23% antiparallel beta-sheet, 4% parallel beta-sheet, 19% beta-turn, and 32% random coil. The 6-histidine loop bound the fluorescent ATP analog trinitrophenyl-ATP with high affinity, as determined by measuring the fluorescence changes associated with binding. Affinities for ATP ( approximately 350 microM) and ADP ( approximately 550 microM) were determined by their ability to compete with and displace 2',3'-O-[2,4,6,-trinitrophenyl]-ATP. These nucleotide affinities are similar to those observed for the E2 conformation of the intact Na,K-ATPase.