Quantitative bone single-photon emission computed tomography for prediction of pain relief in metastatic bone disease treated with rhenium-186 etidronate. To calculate radiation doses of rhenium-186 ((186)Re) etidronate in painful bone metastases using quantitative bone single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and to determine the threshold dose for predicting pain relief. We also wanted to determine whether technetium-99m ((99m)Tc) methylene diphosphonate (MDP) concentrations predict radiation doses of (186)Re etidronate in painful lesions.Forty-eight patients with breast and prostate cancer were evaluated. Patients received therapeutic doses of (186)Re etidronate. The area under the pain over time curve (AUPC) was measured for 8 weeks after treatment. Response was calculated as the percentage of change in AUPC. Quantitative bone SPECT (QBS)-measured concentration of (186)Re etidronate was used for calculating radiation doses. Receiver operating characteristics curve analysis determined the radiation dose threshold that best separated responders from nonresponders. SPECT-measured concentration of (186)Re etidronate in the urinary bladder was correlated with its concentration in the voided urine. Concentration of (99m)Tc MDP was compared with radiation doses to painful metastases.The radiation dose threshold was 2.10 Gy. For a decrease of 50% in the AUPC, the positive predictive value (PPV) of this value was 75% and the negative predictive value (NPV) was 88%. For a decrease in pain of 33%, the PPV was 84% and the NPV was 81%. In prostate cancer patients only, the PPV was 81% and the NPV was 92%. The correlation between in vivo/in vitro measured urine concentration was 0.90. The correlation between (99m)Tc MDP concentration and radiation doses of (186)Re etidronate was 0.92.QBS-measured radiation doses of (186)Re etidronate in painful metastases are a good predictor of pain relief. Bone SPECT using (99m)Tc MDP predicts radiation doses delivered by (186)Re etidronate.