Effects of plasma treated PET and PTFE on expression of adhesion molecules by human endothelial cells in vitro. The aim of this study was to evaluate the expression of adhesion molecules on the surface of human endothelial cells in response to the systematic variation in materials properties by the ammonia plasma modification of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polytetrafluorethylene (PTFE). These adhesion molecules act as mediators of cell adhesion, play a role in the modulation of cell adhesion on biomaterials and therefore condition the response of tissues to implants. First and second passage human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were cultured on plasma treated and untreated PET and PTFE. HUVECs grown on polystyrene tissue culture coverslips and HUVECs stimulated with tumour necrosis factor (TNF-alpha) were used as controls. After 1 day and 7 days, the expression of adhesion molecules platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM-1), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), Integrin alphavbeta3, vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), E-selectin, P-selectin and L-selectin were evaluated using flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry. There was a slight increase in positive cell numbers expressing the adhesion molecules ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 on plasma treated PET and PTFE. A significant increase in E-selectin positive cells on untreated PTFE was demonstrated after 7 days. Stimulation with TNF-alpha demonstrated a significant increase in the proportion of ICAM-1. VCAM-1 and E-selectin positive cells. Almost all cells expressed PECAM-1 and integrin alphavbeta3, on both materials and controls but did not express P- and L-selectin on any surface. When second passage cells were used, the expression of the adhesion molecules ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 was markedly increased on all surfaces but not with TNF-alpha. These significant differences were not observed in other adhesion molecules. These results were supported by immunohistochemical studies. The effects of plasma treated PET and PTFE on cell adhesion and proliferation was also studied. There was a 1.3-fold increase in cell numbers adhered on ammonia plasma treated PET compared to untreated PET and a 5.5-fold increase in cell numbers on treated PTFE compared to untreated PTFE after 1 day. This is significantly different when analysed statistically. After 7 days, cell number increased significantly on all surfaces compared to 1 day, except for untreated PTFE which conversely reduced by 41%. Cell number on the surface of untreated PET was no different to treated PET on days 1 and 7 when second passage cells were used. The study has shown that the plasma treatment of PET and PTFE with ammonia improves the adhesion and growth of endothelial cells and slightly upregulates the expression of adhesion molecules. This surface modification should promote colonisation of an artificial vascular prosthesis by endothelial cells and make it less vulnerable to immune system cells of the recipient. In addition, it should be considered which passage of cells is used due to the different adhesion features of different passages of HUVECs on untreated PET.