Prognostic value of myocardial viability determined by a 201Tl SPECT study in patients with previous myocardial infarction and mild-to-moderate myocardial dysfunction. The prognostic meaning of myocardial viability is most important in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction and ischaemic heart disease, but its prognostic significance in patients with previous myocardial infarction and mild-to-moderate myocardial dysfunction is uncertain. The aim of this study was to assess the prognostic value of a 201Tl single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) rest-redistribution study in patients with previous myocardial infarction, ischaemic heart disease and mild-to-moderate myocardial dysfunction. Myocardial viability was assessed in 55 patients (50 male mean age 58+/-9 years) by 201Tl SPECT rest-redistribution (after 4 h) scintigraphy. All patients had previous myocardial infarction (>3 months) and angiographically documented coronary artery disease, with the mean ejection fraction of 43+/-10%. Out of 55 patients, 20 were medically treated and 35 were revascularized. The follow-up period for adverse cardiac events, including death and non-fatal myocardial infarction, was 12 months. 201Tl SPECT study was positive for myocardial viability in 36 patients (65%) and negative in 19 patients (35%). Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values for functional improvement in the follow-up period were 85%, 75%, 92% and 60%. Out of seven (13%) cardiac events in the follow-up period (four cardiac deaths and three reinfarctions), five occurred in 20 medically treated patients and two in 35 revascularized patients (25% vs 6%, P <0.05). Absence of myocardial viability was the only variable associated with adverse cardiac events (P =0.02). Survival at 12 months, as determined by using Kaplan-Meier analysis, was 56% for medically treated and non-viable patients, 80% for revascularized and non-viable patients, 91% for medically treated and viable patients, and 100% for revascularized and viable patients (P =0.0034). These findings suggest that in patients with previous myocardial infarction and mild-to-moderate myocardial dysfunction, the absence of myocardial viability as determined by the 201Tl SPECT study was the only variable associated with adverse cardiac events. The best 12 month survival was observed in revascularized viable patients, whereas the worse prognosis was found in non-viable, medically treated patients.