The impact of the Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial II in a university hospital--do all patients with myocardial infarction and reduced left ventricular function need an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator?. Patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and severely compromised left ventricular ejection fraction are at high risk to die from sudden cardiac death. The Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator implantation Trial II (MADIT II) shows a significant benefit of a cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) therapy compared to standard treatment alone in this selected group of patients. The objective of the present study was to investigate the number of patients who will fulfil the MADIT II criteria and are candidates for prophylactic ICD implantation.From January to December 2001 a total of 2653 patients underwent coronary angiography at our institution due to angina pectoris, positive exercise stress testing, pathological SPECT myocardial perfusion images, suspected dilated cardiomyopathy or ventricular arrhythmias. According to the MADIT II inclusion criteria patients with significant coronary artery disease (diameter stenosis > 50%), ejection fraction < 0.31% and previous myocardial infarction were included. Exclusion criteria were acute coronary syndromes, patients with ventricular tachyarrhythmias or an existing indication for ICD therapy, and patients with coronary artery bypass graft surgery or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty within the past or following three months.Out of 2653 patients 185 (7%) had an ejection fraction less than 0.31, 149 (5.6%) showed significant coronary artery stenosis and 70 (2.6%) patients fulfilled the MADIT II criteria. The mean age of these patients was 68 +/- 9 years, the left ventricular ejection fraction 24 +/- 6. In 37 patients an ICD system was implanted according to the existing guidelines. 70 patients met the MADIT II inclusion criteria, resulting in an increase of 189% of ICD implantations per year.2.6% out of 2653 patients who were referred to coronary angiography fulfilled the criteria of MADIT II. The expanding indication for ICD therapy will result in an annual increase of 70 (189%) prophylactic ICD implantations in our study population.