Histopathologic characterization of radioactive iodine-refractory fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography-positive thyroid carcinoma. Radioactive iodine-refractory (RAIR) 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) positive thyroid carcinomas represent the major cause of deaths from thyroid carcinomas (TC) and are therefore the main focus of novel target therapies. However, to the authors' knowledge, the histology of FDG-PET-positive RAIR metastatic thyroid carcinoma has not been described to date.Metastatic tissue from RAIR PET-positive patients identified between 1996 and 2003 at the study institution were selected for histologic examination. The biopsied metastatic site corresponded to a FDG-PET positive lesion sampled within 2 years (87% of which were sampled within 1 year) of the PET scan. Detailed microscopic examination was performed on the metastatic deposit and the available primary tumors. Poorly differentiated thyroid carcinomas (PDTC) were defined on the basis of high mitotic activity (> or =5 mitoses/10 high-power fields) and/or tumor necrosis. Other types of carcinomas were defined by conventional criteria. The histology of the metastases and primary were analyzed, with disease-specific survival (DSS) as the endpoint.A total of 70 patients satisfied the selection criteria, 43 of whom had primary tumors available for review. Histologic characterization of the metastasis/recurrence in 70 patients revealed that 47.1% (n = 33 patients) had PDTC, 20% (n = 14 patients) had the tall cell variant (TCV) of papillary thyroid carcinoma, 22.9% (n = 16 patients) had well-differentiated papillary thyroid carcinoma (WDPTC), 8.6% (n = 6 patients) had Hurthle cell carcinoma (HCC), and 1.4% (n = 1 patient) had anaplastic carcinomas. The histopathologic distribution of the tumor in the primaries was: PDTC, 51% TCV, 19%Several observations can be made based on the results of the current study. The majority of metastases in patients with RAIR PET-positive metastases are of a histologically aggressive subtype. However, well-differentiated RAIR metastatic disease is observable. Poorly differentiated disease is underrecognized in many cases if defined by architectural and nuclear features alone. The presence of tumor necrosis was found to be a strong predictor of aggressive behavior, even within this group of clinically aggressive tumors. Finally, there is a significant amount of histologic plasticity between primary tumors and metastases that may reflect the genetic instability of these tumors.