. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mediates its activity through an associated intracellular tyrosine kinase (TK) that controls the signal transduction pathway(s) responsible for the stimulation of cell processes such as growth, proliferation, and motility necessary for the progression of cancers (1). Although constitutive activation of the EGFR or a mutated TK are known to promote the development of various cancers, a characteristic feature of some malignantly transformed cells is the overexpression of EGFR or the receptor ligands that result in a constant activation of the receptor (2). In addition, an overactive TK, due to EGFR activation, a gene mutation, or overexpression, may also provide a stimulus for a ligand-free, and unregulated, initiation of the signal transduction pathway(s). Because of their role in the development of the oncogenic phenotype, the EGFR and its associated TK are respectively targeted with antibodies and small molecule inhibitors, respectively0 for the treatment of various cancers (3). Several of these agents are under evaluation in clinical trials approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration. The EGFR-TK inhibitors bind, reversibly or irreversibly, to the intracellular ATP binding site of the enzyme, prevent autophosphorylation of the receptor, and inhibit the signal transduction pathway(s) responsible for initiation of the biological processes mediated by the EGFR (3, 4). Determination of the EGFR content of cancerous tumors with noninvasive imaging techniques could help monitor cancer patients who are likely to benefit from an anti-EGFR or anti-TK therapy and perhaps predict the treatment prognosis for patients. The use of labeled reversible EGFR-TK inhibitors with positron emission tomography (PET) for the imaging of EGFR was evaluated earlier (5, 6), but these imaging agents were determined to be unsuitable for this purpose because of the high intracellular ATP content that resulted in rapid clearance of the label from the cells, rendering the compounds ineffective for PET imaging of tumors. To alleviate the limitations observed with the reversible TK inhibitor PET probes, investigators developed and evaluated the use of nuclide-labeled irreversible TK inhibitors for the imaging of EGFR (7, 8). Mishani et al. reported that derivatives of the 4-dimethylamino-but-2-enoic acid [4-(phenylamino)-quinazoline-6-yl]-amide group had a high chemical and biological stability as well as high specificity as irreversible inhibitors of the EGFR-TK (9). On the basis of these observations, Abourbeh et al. developed and characterized an 