Measuring and modeling patient-specific distributions of material properties in abdominal aortic aneurysm wall. Both the clinically established diameter criterion and novel approaches of computational finite element (FE) analyses for rupture risk stratification of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) are based on assumptions of population-averaged, uniform material properties for the AAA wall. The presence of inter-patient and intra-patient variations in material properties is known, but has so far not been addressed sufficiently. In order to enable the preoperative estimation of patient-specific AAA wall properties in the future, we investigated the relationship between non-invasively assessable clinical parameters and experimentally measured AAA wall properties. We harvested n = 163 AAA wall specimens (n = 50 patients) during open surgery and recorded the exact excision sites. Specimens were tested for their thickness, elastic properties, and failure loads using uniaxial tensile tests. In addition, 43 non-invasively assessable patient-specific or specimen-specific parameters were obtained from recordings made during surgery and patient charts. Experimental results were correlated with the non-invasively assessable parameters and simple regression models were created to mathematically describe the relationships. Wall thickness was most significantly correlated with the metabolic activity at the excision site assessed by PET/CT (ρ = 0.499, P = 4 × 10(-7)) and to thrombocyte counts from laboratory blood analyses (ρ = 0.445, P = 3 × 10(-9)). Wall thickness was increased in patients suffering from diabetes mellitus, while it was significantly thinner in patients suffering from chronic kidney disease (CKD). Elastic AAA wall properties had significant correlations with the metabolic activity at the excision site (PET/CT), with existent calcifications, and with the diameter of the non-dilated aorta proximal to the AAA. Failure properties (wall strength and failure tension) had correlations with the patient's medical history and with results from laboratory blood analyses. Interestingly, AAA wall failure tension was significantly reduced for patients with CKD and elevated blood levels of potassium and urea, respectively, both of which are associated with kidney disease. This study is a first step to a future preoperative estimation of AAA wall properties. Results can be conveyed to both the diameter criterion and FE analyses to refine rupture risk prediction. The fact that AAA wall from patients suffering from CKD featured reduced failure tension implies an increased AAA rupture risk for this patient group at comparably smaller AAA diameters. 