Progress in vascular dementia--an overview of vascular dementia from past to new concepts. This article summarizes various concepts (Binswangers encephalopathy, multiinfarct-dementia, lacunar state, mixed dementia, dementia due to amyloid angiopathy or vasculitis) and classifications (DSM, ICD, ADDTC) on vascular dementia. It reviews historical, clinical, and diagnostic aspects (i.e. neuroradiology, SPECT, PET) as well as therapeutic approaches. The confusing nomenclature on vascular dementia is discussed, considering especially the non-convincing concept of multiinfarct-dementia that often has been misused as a synonym for vascular dementia. Multiinfarct-dementia is now restricted to a syndrome of vascular dementia due to several large vessels strokes. A current definition and classification of vascular dementia as suggested by NINDS-AIREN international workshop is described. It defines criteria consistent with the diagnosis of "possible", "probable" and "definite" vascular dementia based on clinical, radiologic and neuropathologic features. The criteria of "probable" vascular dementia include all the following: 1. the presence of dementia and cerebrovascular disease defined by focal signs on neurologic investigation and evidence of relevant cerebrovascular disease by brain imaging (multiple lacunae, extensive white matter lesions, multiple large-vessels infarcts or a strategically placed infarct) 2. A relationship between dementia and cerebrovascular disease (onset of dementia within 3 months following a recognized stroke abrupt deterioration, stepwise progression). This classification of vascular dementia emphasises pathogenetic aspects and includes dementia resulting from small- and large-vessels disease as well as hypoperfusion, haemorrhagic dementia and dementia due to still unknown factors. Operational criteria for the frequent Binswangers encephalopathy--a prototype of vascular dementia--are presented. Thereby a basis for further research and discussion in this exciting area should have been formed.