Should imaging at stress always be followed by imaging at rest in Tc-99m MIBI SPECT? A proposal for a selective referral and imaging strategy. We addressed the question whether in patients with cardiac chest pain referred for stress myocardial perfusion scintigraphy, Tc-99m MIBI SPECT stress imaging should always be followed by a rest imaging procedure.Using Tc-99m MIBI imaging a stress rest sequence is usually performed implying that the resting study always follows the stress study irrespective of the results of the stress study. As a normal stress study would eliminate a subsequent resting study, it appears desirable to potentially define certain subsets of patients in whom a normal stress study can be expected in order to determine a more selective referral approach to the nuclear medicine department. The consequences of such a more streamlined approach would less impose on the logistics of the department of nuclear medicine, with decrease of investigation time, radiation dose, and costs in a time of retrenchment in the medical sector.A consecutive series of 460 patients (mean age 58.2 years) was studied who were stratified to 269 patients without prior myocardial infarction, and to 191 patients with documented evidence of a previously sustained myocardial infarction. All patients underwent Tc-99m MIBI SPECT imaging according to a two-day stress-rest protocol.Patients with and without a previous myocardial infarction showed suboptimal overall predictive accuracies for the exercise electrocardiograms (58% and 60%, respectively). In the total group of 460 patients, 94 (20%) patients showed a normal stress-rest Tc-99m MIBI SPECT this occurred in 86/269 (32%) patients without a previous myocardial infarction and in only 8/191 (4%) patients with a previous myocardial infarction.Patients with a stress defect at Tc-99m MIBI SPECT imaging should always undergo a resting SPECT study irrespective of the clinical and stress electrocardiographic findings. As patients without a previous myocardial infarction had a normal stress SPECT study in almost one-third (32%) of patients compared to only 4% in patients with a previously myocardial infarction, it may be useful to employ different referral and imaging strategies i.e., a stress-only versus a stress-rest procedure. To schedule referring patients differently according to the presence or absence of a previously sustained myocardial infarction may be cost-saving, less demanding for the nuclear medicine personnel, and patient-convenient. In addition, a stress-only imaging procedure reduces radiation exposure to the individual patient.