<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>1994-06-30</DATELINE><TITLE>Humoral immune response to Salmonella abortusovis in sheep: in vitro induction of an antibody synthesis from either sensitized or unprimed lymph node cells</TITLE><BODY>Abstract In vitro culture conditions were determined to induce an anti-Salmonella abortusovis antibody synthesis from lymph node leucocytes of three immunized sheep and two unprimed lambs maintained in culture in the presence of heat-inactivated bacteria for 2 weeks. Humoral immune responses were assessed by enumerating specific antibody-secreting cells using ELISASPOT and by titrating immunoglobulins secreted into culture supernatants using ELISA techniques. Optimal secondary antibody response was observed from cultures performed with fetal calf serum (compared with horse serum) and with an antigen concentration of one to ten bacteria per cell. This kind of antigenic stimulation allowed induction of numerous antibody-secreting cells without adsorption of the secreted antibodies. Maximal numbers of antibody-secreting cells could reach a rate of 1% of the sheep leucocytes initially put into culture. Kinetic profiles of antibody production from boosted lymph node cells were characterized by an ascending phase from the sixth to the twelfth day of culture and then showed a plateau phase until Day 14. Most of the responses were composed of IgM and IgG1 antibodies, traces of IgG2 being detected at the end of experiments. From the twelfth day of antigenic stimulation, the IgM isotype was preferentially expressed with high antigen concentration (100 bacteria per cell), whereas the highest amounts of IgG1 were detected at lower concentration (one to ten bacteria per cell). While anti-Salmonella IgM appeared to be mainly specific for the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) cell wall fraction, some IgG1 recognized other bacterial antigens. Kinetic profiles and magnitudes of primary antibody responses induced in vitro from lamb lymph node cells did not differ from those defined in cultures of sheep boosted leucocytes. But these immune reactions were mainly made up of anti-LPS IgM. Few anti-Salmonella IgG1 were detected from the tenth day of culture. So these in vitro assays allowed induction of an antibody synthesis from either in vivo sensitized or unprimed sheep lymph node leucocytes. This methodology would permit achievement of more detailed studies on interactions between Salmonella and lymph node leucocytes, leading to a better understanding of the mechanisms controlling bacterial dissemination through the lymphoid tissue.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>