<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-03-02</DATELINE><TITLE>Reprint of bioaerosol: A bridge and opportunity for many scientific research fields</TITLE><BODY>Bioaerosol is a concept that is used to describe all biological materials suspended in the air, including bacteria, fungi, viruses, pollen, and their derivatives such as allergens, endotoxin, mycotoxins and etc. In some studies, primary biological aerosol particle (PBAP) is also coined to refer to intact microbes in the air. Bioaerosol is a multidisciplinary research subject, involving many different fields such as microbiology, mechanical engineering, air pollution, medical science, epidemiology, immunological science, biochemistry, physics, nanotechnologies and etc. The bioaerosol field has undergone about 200 years' research history since 1833 when mold spores were first detected in the air by Charles Darwin on the Cape Verde Islands. In recent decades, there has been a research boom in bioaerosol field, thus triggering many outstanding research opportunities. Visible progress has already been made in understanding bioaerosol roles in human health, atmospheric and ecological impacts as well as their respective technologies: bioaerosol capture, monitoring and also inactivation. Most recently, researchers from different fields start to bridge together for solving bioaerosol challenges and addressing key scientific problems, e.g., bioaerosol spread, real-time detection, indoor microbes, human bioaerosol emissions, and bio-defense. Toward this effort, a “Bioaerosol Xiangshan Science Conference-the 600th” has been successfully held in the summer in Beijing, China. A total of 47 scientists and funding agency officials including leading bioaerosol experts from overseas were invited and two-day long extensive discussions on bioaerosol progress and problems were carried out. Future bioaerosol directions have been outlined by the attendees during the conference. Some of the participants have also contributed to this bioaerosol special issue. This special issue consists of a total of 20 bioaerosol articles from eight countries including one review, and contributes to the advances in bioaerosol emission, transmission, health effects, ambient bioaerosols, method development and instrumentation, and control. Through this special issue, the bioaerosol community has obtained a better understanding of bioaerosol health risks and developed the corresponding strategies to confront the threats. This special issue might serve as a starting point to not only link bioaerosol scientists from different continents, but also bring together people from various fields yet with an interest in bioaerosol to collectively advance the field further.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>