<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2008-07-05</DATELINE><TITLE>The Widespread Evolutionary Significance of Viruses</TITLE><BODY>In the last 30 years, the study of virus evolution has undergone a transformation. Originally concerned with disease and its emergence, virus evolution had not been well integrated into the general study of evolution. This chapter reviews the developments that have brought us to this new appreciation for the general significance of virus evolution to all life. We now know that viruses numerically dominate all habitats of life, especially the oceans. Theoretical developments in the 1970s regarding quasispecies, error rates, and error thresholds have yielded many practical insights into virus–host dynamics. The human diseases of HIV-1 and hepatitis C virus cannot be understood without this evolutionary framework. Yet recent developments with poliovirus demonstrate that viral fitness can be the result of a consortia, not one fittest type, a basic Darwinian concept in evolutionary biology. Darwinian principles do apply to viruses, such as with Fisher population genetics, but other features, such as reticulated and quasispecies-based evolution distinguish virus evolution from classical studies. The available phylogenetic tools have greatly aided our analysis of virus evolution, but these methods struggle to characterize the role of virus populations. Missing from many of these considerations has been the major role played by persisting viruses in stable virus evolution and disease emergence. In many cases, extreme stability is seen with persisting RNA viruses. Indeed, examples are known in which it is the persistently infected host that has better survival. We have also recently come to appreciate the vast diversity of phage (DNA viruses) of prokaryotes as a system that evolves by genetic exchanges across vast populations (Chapter 10). This has been proposed to be the “big bang” of biological evolution. In the large DNA viruses of aquatic microbes we see surprisingly large, complex and diverse viruses. With both prokaryotic and eukaryotic DNA viruses, recombination is the main engine of virus evolution, and virus host co-evolution is common, although not uniform. Viral emergence appears to be an unending phenomenon and we can currently witness a selective sweep by retroviruses that infect and become endogenized in koala bears.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>