cGMP phosphodiesterase-alpha mutation causes progressive retinal atrophy in the Cardigan Welsh corgi dog. To screen the alpha-subunit of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) phosphodiesterase (PDE6A) as a potential candidate gene for progressive retinal atrophy (PRA) in the Cardigan Welsh corgi dog.Single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis was used to screen short introns of the canine PDE6A gene for informative polymorphisms in members of an extended pedigree of PRA-affected Cardigan Welsh corgis. After initial demonstration of linkage of a polymorphism in the PDE6A gene with the disease locus, the complete coding region of the PDE6A gene of a PRA-affected Cardigan Welsh corgi was cloned in overlapping fragments and sequenced. SSCP-based and direct DNA sequencing tests were developed to detect the presence of a PDE6A gene mutation that segregated with disease status in the extended pedigree of PRA-affected Cardigan Welsh corgis. Genomic DNA sequencing was developed as a diagnostic test to establish the genotype of Cardigan Welsh corgis in the pet population.A polymorphism within intron 18 of the canine PDE6A gene was invariably present in the homozygous state in PRA-affected Cardigan Welsh corgis. The entire PDE6A gene was cloned from one PRA-affected dog and the gene structure and intron sizes established and compared with those of an unaffected animal. Intron sizes were identical in affected and normal dogs. Sequencing of exons and splice junctions in the affected animal revealed a 1-bp deletion in codon 616. Analysis of PRA-affected anti obligate carrier Cardigan Welsh corgis showed that this mutation cosegregated with disease status.A single base deletion at codon 616 in the PDE6A gene cosegregated with PRA status with zero discordance in Cardigan Welsh corgis with PRA. A lod score of 4.816 with a recombination fraction (theta) of zero strongly suggests that this mutation is responsible for PRA in the breed. The mutation is predicted to lead to a frame shift resulting in a string of 28 altered codons followed by a premature stop codon. The authors suggest that this type of PRA be given the name rod-cone dysplasia 3 (rcd3).