Fuzzy clustering-based segmented attenuation correction in whole-body PET imaging. Segmented attenuation correction is now a widely accepted technique to reduce noise propagation from transmission scanning in positron emission tomography (PET). In this paper, we present a new method for segmenting transmission images in whole-body scanning. This reduces the noise in the correction maps while still correcting for differing attenuation coefficients of specific tissues. Based on the fuzzy C-means (FCM) algorithm, the method segments the PET transmission images into a given number of clusters to extract specific areas of differing attenuation such as air, the lungs and soft tissue, preceded by a median filtering procedure. The reconstructed transmission image voxels are, therefore, segmented into populations of uniform attenuation based on knowledge of the human anatomy. The clustering procedure starts with an overspecified number of clusters followed by a merging process to group clusters with similar properties (redundant clusters) and removal of some undesired substructures using anatomical knowledge. The method is unsupervised, adaptive and allows the classification of both pre- or post-injection transmission images obtained using either coincident 68Ge or single-photon 137Cs sources into main tissue components in terms of attenuation coefficients. A high-quality transmission image of the scanner bed is obtained from a high statistics scan and added to the transmission image. The segmented transmission images are then forward projected to generate attenuation correction factors to be used for the reconstruction of the corresponding emission scan. The technique has been tested on a chest phantom simulating the lungs, heart cavity and the spine, the Rando-Alderson phantom, and whole-body clinical PET studies showing a remarkable improvement in image quality, a clear reduction of noise propagation from transmission into emission data allowing for reduction of transmission scan duration. There was very good correlation (R2 = 0.96) between maximum standardized uptake values (SUVs) in lung nodules measured on images reconstructed with measured and segmented attenuation correction with a statistically significant decrease in SUV (17.03% +/- 8.4%, P < 0.01) on the latter images, whereas no proof of statistically significant differences on the average SUVs was observed. Finally, the potential of the FCM algorithm as a segmentation method and its limitations as well as other prospective applications of the technique are discussed.