In vivo measurement of D2 receptor density and affinity for 18F-(3-N-methyl)benperidol in the rat striatum with a PET system for small laboratory animals. A recent investigation showed that intracerebral radioactivity concentrations can reliably be quantified in vivo with a small-animal PET device. The purpose of the current study was to investigate the binding characteristics of the D(2) receptor radioligand (18)F-(3-N-methyl)benperidol ((18)FMB) in rat striatum by determining receptor density (B(max)) and affinity (K(d)) in vivo. For validation, K(d) and B(max) additionally were determined in vitro using storage phosphor autoradiography.Striatal radioactivity was measured with PET in 8 Sprague-Dawley rats after injection of (18)FMB in increasing specific activities. Free radioligand concentrations were estimated from cortical radioactivity concentrations and were subtracted from striatal radioactivity concentrations to obtain specific binding. In vitro saturation experiments were performed on 7 further rats according to the isotopic dilution method. Specific binding was determined by both subtraction of (18)FMB binding in the presence of raclopride and subtraction of cortical radioactivity concentrations from total radioligand binding. Saturation binding curves were obtained by plotting specifically bound radioligand concentrations against free radioligand concentrations and were evaluated with regression analysis.PET yielded a K(d) of 6.2 nmol/L and a B(max) of 16 fmol/mg for the striatal D(2) receptor. In vitro, K(d) and B(max) amounted to 4.4 nmol/L and 84.1 fmol/mg (subtraction of (18)FMB binding in the presence of raclopride), respectively, and 7.9 nmol/L and 70.1 fmol/mg (subtraction of cortical radioactivity concentrations), respectively.K(d) values measured with PET and autoradiography agreed and corresponded to inhibition constants obtained in previous in vitro studies. B(max) values lay within the same order of magnitude. The results of in vitro saturation binding analyses also agreed, irrespective of the mode of determination of free radioligand concentrations. Thus, B(max) and K(d) may be determined with PET in analogy to the evaluation of in vitro binding data by regression analysis of bound-versus-free ligand concentrations. Our results show that small-animal tomographs are valuable tools for the in vivo characterization of receptor radioligands as an alternative to autoradiography.