Mouse plasmacytoma-expressed transcript 1 knock out induced 5-HT disruption results in a lack of cognitive deficits and an anxiety phenotype complicated by hypoactivity and defensiveness. Serotonin (5-HT) is involved in many developmental processes and influences behaviors including anxiety, aggression, and cognition. Disruption of the serotonergic system has been implicated in human disorders including autism, depression, schizophrenia, and ADHD. Although pharmacological, neurotoxin, and dietary manipulation of 5-HT and tryptophan hydroxylase has added to our understanding of the serotonergic system, the results are complicated by multiple factors. A newly identified ETS domain transcription factor, Pet-1, has direct control of major aspects of 5-HT neuronal development. Pet-1 is the only known factor that is restricted in the brain to 5-HT neurons during development and adulthood and exerts dominant control over 5-HT neuronal phenotype. Disruption of Pet-1 produces an approximately 80% loss of 5-HT neurons and content and results in increased aggression in male Pet-1(-/-) mice [Hendricks TJ, Fyodorov DV, Wegman LJ, Lelutiu NB, Pehek EA, Yamamoto B, Silver J, Weeber EJ, Sweatt JD, Deneris ES (2003) Neuron 37:233-247]. We hypothesized that Pet-1(-/-) mice would also exhibit changes in anxiety and cognition. Pet-1(-/-) mice were hypoactive which may have affected the observed lack of anxious behavior in the elevated zero maze and light-dark test. Pet-1(-/-) mice, however, were more defensive during marble burying and showed acoustic startle hyper-reactivity. No deficits in spatial, egocentric, or novel object recognition learning were found in Pet-1(-/-) mice. These findings were unexpected given that 5-HT depleting drugs given to adult or developing animals result in learning deficits [Mazer C, Muneyyirci J, Taheny K, Raio N, Borella A, Whitaker-Azmitia P (1997) Brain Res 760:68-73 Morford LL, Inman-Wood SL, Gudelsky GA, Williams MT, Vorhees CV (2002) Eur J Neurosci 16:491-500