αvβ3 imaging can accurately distinguish between mature teratoma and necrosis in 18F-FDG-negative residual masses after treatment of non-seminomatous testicular cancer: a preclinical study. We assessed whether imaging α(v)β(3) integrin could distinguish mature teratoma from necrosis in human non-seminomatous germ cell tumour (NSGCT) post-chemotherapy residual masses.Human embryonal carcinoma xenografts (six/rat) were untreated (controls) or treated to form mature teratomas with low-dose cisplatin and all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) over a period of 8 weeks. In another group, necrosis was induced in xenografts with high-dose cisplatin plus etoposide (two cycles). (18)F-Fluorodeoxyglucose ((18)F-FDG) small animal positron emission tomography (SA PET) imaging was performed in three rats (one control and two treated for 4 and 8 weeks with cisplatin+ATRA). Imaging of α(v)β(3) expression was performed in six rats bearing mature teratomas and two rats with necrotic lesions on a microSPECT/CT device after injection of the tracer [(99m)Tc]HYNIC-RGD [6-hydrazinonicotinic acid conjugated to cyclo(Arg-Gly-Asp-D-Phe-Lys)]. Correlative immunohistochemistry studies of human and mouse α(v)β(3) expression were performed.Cisplatin+ATRA induced differentiation of the xenografts. After 8 weeks, some glandular structures and mesenchymal cells were visible in contrast, control tumours showed undifferentiated tissues. SA PET imaging showed that mature teratoma had very low avidity for (18)F-FDG [mean standardised uptake value (SUV(mean)) = 0.48 ± 0.05] compared to untreated embryonal carcinoma (SUV(mean) = 0.92 ± 0.13) (p = 0.005). α(v)β(3) imaging accurately distinguished mature teratoma (tumour to muscle ratio = 4.29 ± 1.57) from necrosis (tumour to muscle ratio = 1.3 ± 0.26) (p = 0.0002). Immunohistochemistry studies showed that α(v)β(3) integrin expression was strong in the glandular structures of mature teratoma lesions and negative in host stroma.Imaging α(v)β(3) integrin accurately distinguished mature teratoma from necrosis following cisplatin-based treatment in human NSGCT xenografts.