Investigation of the vertebrobasilar arterial system in vertigo by vestibulocochlear test, SPECT and angiography. Perfusion of the areas of cochleovestibular structures was investigated using Tc-99m HMPAO single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) in the young patients with vertigo presumed to have peripheral vestibular abnormalities and compared the results with cochleovestibular test results, and vertebrobasilar angiography findings.The study was performed on 20 patients with vertigo and 17 control subjects who had performed vertebral arteriography due to another disease. The patients with vertigo presumed to be on peripheral vestibular disorder were included in the study. Systemic and otorhinolaryngological examination were carried out. Audiovestibular function was evaluated in all patients and control subjects. Brain SPECT was performed with a one-head rotating gamma camera system from 64 projections into a 64x64 matrix, using low energy and high-resolution fan beam collimators with a sampling time of 30 s. The images taken from cerebellum, temporal, parietal and occipital lobes which are supplied by a vertebrobasilar system were compared visually with the other side and asymmetry in the perfusion was searched. After cochleovestibular tests and laboratory had been completed, vertebral arteriography was performed bilaterally in all patients. Results of digital subtraction angiography (DSA) and the vestibulocochlear test were compared with images of SPECT. Data analysis was done with Yates Chi(2) and percentages of sensitivity and specificity were calculated.There was vestibular test and cochlear test abnormalities in eight and ten of the patients with vertigo, respectively. SPECT imaging showed hypoperfusion and decreased regional blood flow in 12 of the patients. There was statistically significant differences between the study and control groups in SPECT (P<0.05). Five patients showed abnormal findings in DSA examinations.It is believed that SPECT may be helpful in the detection of vascular pathology in the patients with vertigo.