Ex vivo and in vitro platelet adhesion on RFGD deposited polymers. Clinical applications of small-diameter synthetic vascular grafts are hindered by their highly thrombogenic surfaces. To develop vascular grafts that resist thrombotic occlusion, a radio frequency glow discharge (RFGD) process was employed to modify the surface of existing graft materials. Ultrathin coatings of RFGD polymers of ethylene (E), tetrafluoroethylene (TFE), and hexamethyldisiloxane (HMDS) were deposited on the lumen of Dacron grafts. Surfaces were characterized by electron spectroscopy for chemical analysis (ESCA). The effect of glow discharge treatments on platelet-graft interactions was evaluated in an ex vivo baboon shunt model. Following placement of an untreated or RFGD-treated graft in the shunt, deposition of 111Indium-labeled platelets was monitored for 60 min by gamma camera imaging. Untreated Dacron rapidly accumulated large numbers of platelets, reaching a plateau in 60 min. HMDS- and TFE-treated Dacron had significantly lower levels of platelet deposition compared to the untreated control. In contrast, the ethylene treatment of Dacron augmented platelet deposition, making it the most platelet-adherent surface studied. In vitro studies were also performed using untreated and RFGD-treated poly (ethylene terephthalate) (PET) coverslips. ESCA verified that the surface composition of the untreated and RFGD-treated coverslips were virtually identical to their untreated and treated Dacron graft counterparts. Samples were incubated in washed baboon platelet suspensions for 2 h at 37 degrees C. Platelet adhesion on the untreated PET was relatively high, and many of the platelets had a completely spread morphology. The HMDS and TFE treatment of PET reduced the number of adherent platelets and prevented platelet spreading on the surface. Platelet adhesion and spreading on the ethylene-treated surface was the highest among the four studied. There is a remarkable linear correlation of the ex vivo and in vitro platelet adhesion data.