Regulation of natural killer cell redistribution by prefrontal cortex during stochastic learning. Acute stress elicits redistribution of lymphocyte subsets, especially natural killer (NK) cells, probably for preparatory defense against potential invasion of antigens in fight-flight situations. We previously reported that regulation of lymphocyte redistribution is based on the evaluation of the controllability of a stressor (Kimura, K., Ohira, H., Isowa, T., Matsunaga, M., Murashima, S. 2007. Regulation of lymphocytes redistribution via autonomic nervous activity during stochastic learning. Brain Behav. Immun. 21, 921-934 Ohira, H., Isowa, T., Nomura, M., Ichikawa, N., Kimura, K., Miyakoshi, M., Iidaka, T., Fukuyama, S., Nakajima, T., Yamada, J. 2008. Imaging brain and immune association accompanying cognitive appraisal of an acute stressor. Neuroimage 39, 500-514). Specifially, lymphocyte redistribution is somewhat attenuated when a stressor is uncontrollable, probably to save biological energy in a situation where appropriate coping is unclear. We infer that this phenomenon might reflect top-down regulation over peripheral immune function by higher-ordered brain regions. To investigate the neural basis of such a phenomenon, we simultaneously recorded regional cerebral blood flow using (15)O-water positron emission tomography and cardiovascular (blood pressure and heart rate), neuroendocrine (epinephrine, norepinephrine, and adrenocorticotropic hormone), and immune (proportions of NK cells and helper T cells in blood) indices in 16 male subjects who performed a stochastic learning task with manipulation of controllability (controllable vs. uncontrollable). Consistent with previous studies, the proportion of peripheral NK cells was attenuated in an uncontrollable stress condition. The dorsolateral prefrontal and orbitofrontal cortices were activated in the uncontrollable situation but not in the controllable condition, and additionally, these prefrontal brain regions significantly correlated with the degree of redistribution of NK cells in the uncontrollable condition. The results of the study suggest these brain regions are involved in both evaluation of the controllability of a stressor and regulation of immune function.