Evaluation of regional myocardial perfusion in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction: comparison of 13N-ammonia PET and 99mTc sestamibi SPECT. Positron emission tomography (PET) scanning with 13N-ammonia and 18FDG is well established for the detection of myocardial viability. Due to the limited availability of PET facilities, recent studies have combined technetium 99m sestamibi single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with 18FDG PET or 18FDG SPECT. This approach enables simultaneous assessment of regional myocardial blood flow and metabolism and substantially increases the capacity for viability detection. To validate whether 99mTc-Sestamibi SPECT can replace 13N-ammonia PET, we compared these two modalities in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction due to coronary artery disease.Thirty-one patients (mean age 57+/-8 years mean ejection fraction 27%+/-8%) with angiographically verified coronary artery disease were included. In random order, ammonia-PET and sestamibi-SPECT scans were performed. In a 20-segment model of the left ventricle, two blinded observers scored a total of 610 segments on a five-point scale. In a subset of 20 patients, 400 segments were scored twice to evaluate the observer variations of the two techniques. Segmental score differences were used to compare the imaging modalities. The impact on viability detection was assessed by combining the two flow tracers with FDG PET.Segmental comparison of the PET and SPECT studies yielded similar (difference < or = 1) results in 74% of segments, reflecting regional concordance values in the lateral, apical, anterior, septal, and inferior myocardial walls of 86%, 82%, 71%, 66%, and 63%, respectively. The differences in the septal and inferior walls were primarily due to overestimation of perfusion defects by sestamibi SPECT, which yielded a higher proportion of mismatch patterns in those regions. The overall observer variations of the PET and SPECT studies were 7.5% and 5.8%.Myocardial perfusion imaging with 13N-ammonia PET and 99mTc-sestamibi SPECT yielded similar results in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction, except for the septal and inferior regions. In these regions, SPECT tended to overestimate perfusion defects. Hence, attenuation correction should be considered when combining FDG PET and sestamibi SPECT for diagnosing myocardial viability to avoid overestimation of mismatch patterns in those regions.