<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2016-02-10</DATELINE><TITLE>The RNA- and TRIM25-Binding Domains of Influenza Virus NS1 Protein Are Essential for Suppression of NLRP3 Inflammasome-Mediated Interleukin-1β Secretion</TITLE><BODY>Inflammasomes are cytosolic multimolecular protein complexes that stimulate the activation of caspase-1 and the release of mature forms of interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and IL-18. We previously demonstrated that the influenza A virus M2 protein stimulates IL-1β secretion following activation of the nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome. The nonstructural protein 1 (NS1) of influenza virus inhibits caspase-1 activation and IL-1β secretion. However, the precise mechanism by which NS1 inhibits IL-1β secretion remains unknown. Here, we showed that J774A.1 macrophages stably expressing the NS1 protein inhibited IL-1β secretion after infection with recombinant influenza virus lacking the NS1 gene. Coimmunoprecipitation assay revealed that the NS1 protein interacts with NLRP3. Importantly, the NS1 protein inhibited the NLRP3/ASC-induced single-speck formation required for full activation of inflammasomes. The NS1 protein of other influenza virus strains, including a recent pandemic strain, also inhibited inflammasome-mediated IL-1β secretion. The NS1 RNA-binding domain (basic residues 38 and 41) and TRIM25-binding domain (acidic residues 96 and 97) were required for suppression of NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated IL-1β secretion. These results shed light on a mechanism by which the NS1 protein of influenza virus suppresses NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated IL-1β secretion. IMPORTANCE Innate immune sensing of influenza virus via pattern recognition receptors not only plays a key role in generating type I interferons but also triggers inflammatory responses. We previously demonstrated that the influenza A virus M2 protein activates the NLRP3 inflammasome, leading to the secretion of interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and IL-18 following the activation of caspase-1. Although the nonstructural protein 1 (NS1) of influenza virus inhibits IL-1β secretion, the precise mechanism by which it achieves this remains to be defined. Here, we demonstrate that the NS1 protein interacts with NLRP3 to suppress NLRP3 inflammasome activation. J774A.1 macrophages stably expressing the NS1 protein suppressed NLRP3-mediated IL-1β secretion. The NS1 RNA-binding domain (basic residues 38 and 41) and TRIM25-binding domain (acidic residues 96 and 97) are important for suppression of NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated IL-1β secretion. These results will facilitate the development of new anti-inflammatory drugs.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>