<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-06-13</DATELINE><TITLE>Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus Infection Induces both eIF2α Phosphorylation-Dependent and -Independent Host Translation Shutoff</TITLE><BODY>Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) is an Arterivirus that has caused tremendous economic losses in the global swine industry since it was discovered in the late 1980s. Inducing host translation shutoff is a strategy used by many viruses to optimize their replication and spread. Here, we demonstrate that PRRSV infection causes host translation suppression, which is strongly dependent on viral replication. By screening PRRSV-encoded nonstructural proteins (nsps), we found that nsp2 participates in the induction of host translation shutoff and that its transmembrane (TM) domain is required for this process. nsp2-induced translation suppression is independent of protein degradation pathways and the phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor 2α (eIF2α). However, the overexpression of nsp2 or its TM domain significantly attenuated the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway, an alternative pathway for modulating host gene expression. PRRSV infection also attenuated the mTOR signaling pathway, and PRRSV-induced host translation shutoff could be partly reversed when the attenuated mTOR phosphorylation was reactivated by an activator of the mTOR pathway. PRRSV infection still negatively regulated the host translation when the effects of eIF2α phosphorylation were completely reversed. Taken together, our results demonstrate that PRRSV infection induces host translation shutoff and that nsp2 is associated with this process. Both eIF2α phosphorylation and the attenuation of the mTOR signaling pathway contribute to PRRSV-induced host translation arrest. IMPORTANCE Viruses are obligate parasites, and the production of progeny viruses relies strictly on the host translation machinery. Therefore, the efficient modulation of host mRNA translation benefits viral replication, spread, and evolution. In this study, we provide evidence that porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) infection induces host translation shutoff and that the viral nonstructural protein nsp2 is associated with this process. Many viruses induce host translation shutoff by phosphorylating eukaryotic initiation factor 2α (eIF2α). However, PRRSV nsp2 does not induce eIF2α phosphorylation but attenuates the mTOR signaling pathway, another pathway regulating the host cell translational machinery. We also found that PRRSV-induced host translation shutoff was partly reversed by eliminating the effects of eIF2α phosphorylation or reactivating the mTOR pathway, indicating that PRRSV infection induces both eIF2α phosphorylation-dependent and -independent host translation shutoff.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>