<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-01-16</DATELINE><TITLE>Cryo-electron Microscopy Structures of Novel Viruses from Mud Crab Scylla paramamosain with Multiple Infections</TITLE><BODY>Viruses associated with sleeping disease (SD) in crabs cause great economic losses to aquaculture, and no effective measures are available for their prevention. In this study, to help develop novel antiviral strategies, single-particle cryo-electron microscopy was applied to investigate viruses associated with SD. The results not only revealed the structure of mud crab dicistrovirus (MCDV) but also identified a novel mud crab tombus-like virus (MCTV) not previously detected using molecular biology methods. The structure of MCDV at a 3.5-Å resolution reveals three major capsid proteins (VP1 to VP3) organized into a pseudo-T=3 icosahedral capsid, and affirms the existence of VP4. Unusually, MCDV VP3 contains a long C-terminal region and forms a novel protrusion that has not been observed in other dicistrovirus. Our results also reveal that MCDV can release its genome via conformation changes of the protrusions when viral mixtures are heated. The structure of MCTV at a 3.3-Å resolution reveals a T= 3 icosahedral capsid with common features of both tombusviruses and nodaviruses. Furthermore, MCTV has a novel hydrophobic tunnel beneath the 5-fold vertex and 30 dimeric protrusions composed of the P-domains of the capsid protein at the 2-fold axes that are exposed on the virion surface. The structural features of MCTV are consistent with a novel type of virus. IMPORTANCE Pathogen identification is vital for unknown infectious outbreaks, especially for dual or multiple infections. Sleeping disease (SD) in crabs causes great economic losses to aquaculture worldwide. Here we report the discovery and identification of a novel virus in mud crabs with multiple infections that was not previously detected by molecular, immune, or traditional electron microscopy (EM) methods. High-resolution structures of pathogenic viruses are essential for a molecular understanding and developing new disease prevention methods. The three-dimensional (3D) structure of the mud crab tombus-like virus (MCTV) and mud crab dicistrovirus (MCDV) determined in this study could assist the development of antiviral inhibitors. The identification of a novel virus in multiple infections previously missed using other methods demonstrates the usefulness of this strategy for investigating multiple infectious outbreaks, even in humans and other animals.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>