<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2015-02-04</DATELINE><TITLE>Chimeric Rhinoviruses Obtained via Genetic Engineering or Artificially Induced Recombination Are Viable Only if the Polyprotein Coding Sequence Derives from the Same Species</TITLE><BODY>Recombination is a widespread phenomenon that ensures both the stability and variation of RNA viruses. This phenomenon occurs with different frequencies within species of the Enterovirus genus. Intraspecies recombination is described frequently among non-rhinovirus enteroviruses but appears to be sporadic in rhinoviruses. Interspecies recombination is even rarer for rhinoviruses and mostly is related to ancient events which contributed to the speciation of these viruses. We reported that artificially engineered 5′ untranslated region (UTR) interspecies rhinovirus/rhinovirus or rhinovirus/non-rhinovirus enterovirus recombinants are fully viable. Using a similar approach, we demonstrated in this study that exchanges of the P1-2A polyprotein region between members of the same rhinovirus species, but not between members of different species, give rise to competent chimeras. To further assess the rhinovirus intra- and interspecies recombination potential, we used artificially induced recombination by cotransfection of 5′-end-deleted and 3′-end-deleted and replication-deficient genomes. In this system, intraspecies recombination also resulted in viable viruses with high frequency, whereas no interspecies rhinovirus recombinants could be recovered. Mapping intraspecies recombination sites within the polyprotein highlighted recombinant hotspots in nonstructural genes and at gene boundaries. Notably, all recombinants occurring at gene junctions presented in-frame sequence duplications, whereas most intragenic recombinants were homologous. Taken together, our results suggest that only intraspecies recombination gives rise to viable rhinovirus chimeras in the polyprotein coding region and that recombination hotspots map to nonstructural genes with in-frame duplications at gene boundaries. These data provide new insights regarding the mechanism and limitations of rhinovirus recombination. IMPORTANCE Recombination represents a means to ensure both the stability and the variation of RNA viruses. While intraspecies recombination is described frequently among non-rhinovirus enteroviruses, it seems to occur more rarely in rhinoviruses. Interspecies recombination is even rarer in this virus group and is mostly related to ancient events, which contributed to its speciation. We used engineered chimeric genomes and artificially induced RNA recombination to study experimentally the recombination potential of rhinoviruses and analyze recombination sites. Our results suggest that only intraspecies recombination gives rise to viable chimeras in the polyprotein coding region. Furthermore, characterization of intraspecies chimeras provides new insight into putative recombination hotspots within the polyprotein. In summary, we applied two powerful and complementary experimental approaches to improve current knowledge on rhinovirus recombination.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>