Effect of intensive diabetes treatment on carotid artery wall thickness in the epidemiology of diabetes interventions and complications. Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications (EDIC) Research Group. The Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications (EDIC) is a multicenter longitudinal observational study of the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) cohort. One of the major objectives of EDIC is to study the development and progression of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease in type 1 diabetes. In this study, we evaluated the role of cardiovascular risk factors and antecedent therapy in the DCCT on carotid intima-media wall thickness (IMT) in type 1 diabetes. At approximately 18 months after the end of the DCCT, high-resolution B-mode ultrasonography was used to assess the carotid arteries of 1,325 patients with type 1 diabetes, 19-51 years of age, with duration of diabetes ranging from 6.3 to 26.1 years. An age- and sex-matched nondiabetic population (n = 153) was studied with the same protocol. The ultrasound protocol was carried out in 28 EDIC clinics by centrally trained and certified sonographers using one of three scanning systems. Determination of IMT from videotaped images was performed by a single reader at the Central Ultrasound Reading Unit. Univariate associations with greater IMT were strongest for older age and longer diabetes duration, greater waist-to-hip ratio (men only), higher blood pressure, higher LDL cholesterol, and smoking. The DCCT therapy group (intensive versus conventional) and HbA1c, measured at the time of the ultrasound or the mean HbA1c during the DCCT, were not significantly related to IMT. Multivariate analyses suggest that age, height, smoking, and BMI were the major predictors of common carotid IMT, whereas age, smoking, and LDL cholesterol predicted internal carotid IMT. There were significant differences between the IMT values of the internal carotid artery in the EDIC male cohort and similarly aged male nondiabetic control subjects. There were no significant differences between the IMT values in the EDIC female cohort and similarly aged female nondiabetic control subjects. At this point in the planned 10-year follow-up of the DCCT cohort, neither intensive therapy nor HbA1c level appears to influence the early signs of atherosclerosis. Traditional risk factors, including age, smoking, and LDL cholesterol, were related to IMT. As the cohort is only now entering the age interval during which rapid progression and clinical expression of atherosclerosis are expected, further follow-up will help to determine the role of hyperglycemia, and its interaction with other risk factors, on the development of atherosclerosis.