Simultaneous intracoronary ultrasound and Doppler flow studies distinguish flow-mediated from receptor-mediated endothelial responses. Abnormalities in vascular endothelial function, which occur early in atherosclerosis, may play an etiologic role in the development of the disease or represent a marker for the extent of atherosclerosis. Endothelial dysfunction, usually characterized by demonstration of decreased endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation, may be a sensitive and specific method to detect vascular disease in its earliest stages. In this context, separation of abnormalities in receptor-mediated and flow-mediated endothelium-dependent vasodilatory responses may allow for the most accurate characterization of endothelial dysfunction. In 35 patients undergoing routine annual cardiac catheterization after heart transplantation, changes in epicardial lumen area and coronary blood flow in response to intracoronary administration of adenosine, acetylcholine, and nitroglycerin were measured simultaneously using an intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) catheter positioned over a Doppler flow wire in the left anterior descending coronary artery. The combination of these techniques allowed for distinction between receptor-mediated and flow-mediated endothelium-dependent vascular responses. Peak flow with the endothelium-independent resistance vessel dilator adenosine occurred at 18+/-2 sec the maximal lumen area response occurred later, at 43+/-11 sec (P < 0.001). Acetylcholine, an endothelium-dependent small- and large-vessel vasodilator, caused an immediate increase in both flow and lumen area, but a second peak of dilation was observed, and maximal area occurred 46 sec after maximal flow (54+/-14 vs. 100+/-26 sec, P < 0.001). Simultaneous IVUS and Doppler flow measurements after infusion of vasoactive agents allows for distinction between and evaluation of the relative contribution of agonist-mediated and flow-mediated responses, which may offer important and unique insights into coronary endothelial function.