Genetic polymorphism of renin-angiotensin system is not associated with diabetic vascular complications in Japanese subjects with long-term insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. In a hospital cohort study, we examined whether or not ACE (Angiotensin-I converting enzyme) and AGT (Angiotensinogen) gene polymorphisms were associated with the development of nephropathy in long-term Japanese insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) patients with or without proliferative retinopathy, and whether or not the polymorphisms were associated with an arteriosclerotic family history in first degree relatives of the patients. A total of 201 patients with IDDM for more than 10 years and 159 patients with IDDM for more than 15 years were randomly selected in our hospital. All patients received uniform diabetes management and were divided into three groups, no nephropathy, incipient nephropathy and clinical nephropathy groups. There were no differences in clinical characteristics excluding urinary albumin to creatinine ratio and systolic blood pressure between the three groups. ACE I/D polymorphism was related to plasma ACE activity, but there were no associations between ACE I/D polymorphism and the development of diabetic nephropathy, nor was renal deterioration observed in patients with proliferative retinopathy even in those with a history of diabetes for more than 15 years. The AGT polymorphism did not have an additive effect on the association between ACE polymorphism and the development of diabetic nephropathy in patients with or without retinopathy. Development of diabetic nephropathy in the patients with or without proliferative retinopathy did not result in ACE or AGT polymorphisms. On the other hand, the ACE DD genotype was associated with a family history of ischemic heart disease in first degree relatives (X2 score = 9.04, P < 0.05). ACE and AGT gene polymorphisms may not play a role in the protective or accelerative effect against the development of diabetic nephropathy in the patients with or without proliferative retinopathy, but ACE gene polymorphism might be related to an arteriosclerotic family history in Japanese IDDM patients.