Plasma lactate concentration and muscle blood flow during dynamic exercise with negative-pressure breathing. This study assessed the hypothesis that increasing cardiac filling pressure (CFP) would enhance contracting muscle blood flow (MBF) by stretching cardiopulmonary baroreceptors and attenuate the increase in plasma lactate concentration ([Lac(-)](p)) during dynamic exercise. Continuous negative-pressure breathing (CNPB) (-15 cmH(2)O) was used to increase the CFP by accelerating the venous return to the heart. In the first series of experiments, 10 men performed a graded exercise seated on a cycle ergometer with (N1) and without CNPB (C1). The increase in [Lac(-)](p) for N1 was attenuated at 60%, 90%, and 100% of maximal exercise intensity compared with that in C1 (P < 0.001). Also, the increases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and plasma catecholamine concentrations were attenuated in N1 compared with those in C1 throughout the graded exercise (P < 0.05). However, heart rate and pulse pressure were not significantly influenced by CNPB. Second, we studied the impact of CNPB on forearm MBF during a rhythmic handgrip exercise in 5 of the 10 subjects. Forearm MBF was measured immediately after cessation of the exercise by venous occlusion plethysmography at rest, 30%, 50%, and 70% of maximal work load (WL(max)) with (N2) and without CNPB (C2). Forearm MBF and vascular conductance for both trials increased with the increase in intensity, but forearm skin blood flow measured by laser-Doppler flowmetry remained unchanged. MBF and vascular conductance in N2, however, increased more than in C2 at every intensity (P < 0.01) except for MBF at 70% WL(max), whereas the increase in MAP for N2 was attenuated compared with that in C2 (P < 0.05). Thus augmented active muscle vasodilation occurred in N2 with a lower increase in MAP compared with that in C2. These findings suggest that the stretch of intrathoracic baroreceptors, such as cardiopulmonary mechanoreceptors, by CNPB increased MBF by suppressing sympathetic nerve activity. The attenuation of the increase in [Lac(-)](p) might be caused, at least partially, by the increased MBF.