Is oscillometric ankle pressure reliable in leg vascular disease? The objective of the study was to evaluate the validity of oscillometric systolic ankle pressure in symptomatic leg arterial occlusive disease. Ankle pressure measurements using oscillometric curves obtained using a standard 12-cm cuff with a specially designed device for signal processing were validated against the continuous wave (CW) Doppler technique. Thirty-four subjects without signs or symptoms of peripheral vascular disease (68 legs) and 47 patients with leg ischaemia (85 legs) varying from moderate claudication to critical ischaemia were examined. The oscillometric curves were analysed using several algorithms reported in the literature, based on the assumption that maximum oscillations are recorded near mean arterial pressure. In normals, reasonable agreement between CW Doppler and oscillometric methods was seen. When an algorithm that determined the lowest cuff pressure at which maximum oscillations occurred, and a characteristic ratio for systolic pressure of 0.52 was used, the mean difference between CW Doppler and oscillometry was 1.7 mmHg [range -19 to +27, limits of agreement (2 SD) 21.1 mmHg]. In ischaemic legs, oscillometry overestimated systolic ankle pressure by a mean of 28.8 mmHg [range -126 to +65, limits of agreement 82.8 mmHg]. The difference was more pronounced among patients with critical ischaemia compared with claudicants, and also more evident among diabetics. The error of oscillometric pressure determination in subjects with leg arterial disease inversely increased with CW Doppler ankle pressure. In 39% of the recordings in legs with a CW Doppler systolic pressure below 100 mmHg, the oscillometric mean arterial pressure was higher than the recorded CW Doppler systolic pressure. In conclusion, the oscillometric method to determine systolic ankle pressure, based on the concept of maximum cuff oscillations occurring near mean arterial pressure, is not reliable in leg arterial disease, usually overestimating ankle pressure.