Circulating adhesion molecules and carotid artery structural changes in patients with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Hypertension and non insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) are well-known risk factors for atherosclerotic disease. Intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) may exert a relevant role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis their prognostic relevance has been recently demonstrated. The aim of the study was to investigate possible inter-relation between circulating adhesion molecule levels, carotid artery structure and endothelial function in 15 patients with NIDDM, as well as in 15 patients with both NIDDM and essential hypertension (NIDDM+EH) compared with 15 normal subjects (NS) and 15 euglycaemic patients with EH, matched for age, sex and body weight. All subjects were submitted to a biopsy of the gluteal subcutaneous fat. Small arteries were dissected and mounted on a micromyograph, and the media-to-lumen (M/L) ratio was then calculated. Carotid artery structure was investigated by Doppler ultrasound. Endothelial function was evaluated by investigation of the flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) of the brachial artery. ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 plasma levels were measured by ELISA. ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 plasma levels were significantly greater and FMD smaller in EH, NIDDM and NIDDM+EH than in NS, but no difference was observed among the three pathological groups. Carotid artery structural changes were more pronounced in NIDDM+EH. No significant difference was observed among NIDDM, EH and NS. The M/L ratio of subcutaneous small resistance arteries was significantly greater in NIDDM+EH than in NIDDM or EH. NS had a smaller M/L ratio than the other groups. Significant correlations were observed between ICAM-1 plasma levels and indices of carotid artery structure in diabetic patients. However, the relations were close only in NIDDM+EH. In conclusion, our data suggest that NIDDM+EH may present more pronounced vascular structural alterations than NIDDM, and that adhesion molecules plasma levels are closely inter-related with carotid artery structural alterations, at least in NIDDM+EH, but not with M/L ratio of small resistance arteries.