Endovascular therapy in prevention and management of coronary-subclavian steal. The optimal management of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) who have proximal subclavian artery stenosis (SAS) is not well established. SAS may lead to flow reversal through a patent in situ internal mammary artery graft, resulting in myocardial ischemia (coronary-subclavian steal). We review our experience in prevention and management of coronary-subclavian steal.The medical records of patients who received treatment of symptomatic coronary-subclavian steal were reviewed. Patients who underwent subclavian artery revascularization before CABG were also included in our review. Patient demographic data, findings at presentation, imaging and treatment methods, and short-term and intermediate-term results were analyzed.Over 4 years, 14 patients with combined subclavian and coronary artery disease were identified. Nine patients had angina (n = 8) and/or congestive heart failure (n = 2) after CABG (post-CABG group). Four patients underwent treatment of SAS and one underwent treatment of recurrent stenosis before or during CABG (pre-CABG group). Among this pre-CABG group, one patient had symptoms of left arm claudication the other four patients had no symptoms. A blood pressure gradient was commonly noted between both arms. An angiogram confirmed the proximal location of SAS in all patients, and established the presence of flow reversal in a patent internal mammary artery graft in the post-CABG group. Operative management consisted of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and stenting of the subclavian lesion in 11 patients, PTA only in 2 patients, and carotid-subclavian bypass grafting in 1 patient. No known perioperative complications or morbidity was encountered in either group. Mean follow-up was 29 months, during which stenosis recurred in two patients, along with associated cardiac symptoms. In both patients repeat angioplasty was successful, for an assisted primary patency rate of 100%.PTA and stenting to treat SAS appears to provide effective protection from and treatment of coronary-subclavian steal over the short and intermediate terms. A surveillance program is essential because of the risk for recurrent stenosis. Continued follow-up is necessary to determine long-term efficacy of this treatment compared with more conventional surgical approaches.