Involvement of peripheral neuropeptide Y receptors in sympathetic modulation of acute cutaneous flare induced by intradermal capsaicin. In a recent study, we have demonstrated that the dorsal root reflex (DRR)-mediated acute cutaneous neurogenic inflammation following intradermal injection of capsaicin (CAP) is sympathetically dependent and subject to modulation by peripheral alpha(1)-adrenoceptors. Postganglionic sympathetic neurons contain not only adrenergic neurotransmitters, but also non-adrenergic substances, including neuropeptide Y (NPY). In this study, we examined if peripheral NPY receptors participate in the flare following CAP injection. Different NPY receptor subtypes were studied by using relatively specific agonists and antagonists for the Y(1) and Y(2) subtypes. Changes in cutaneous blood flow on the plantar surface of the foot were measured using a laser Doppler flowmeter. Following CAP injection, cutaneous flare spread more than 20 mm away from the site of CAP injection. Removal of the postganglionic sympathetic nerves by surgical sympathectomy reduced dramatically the CAP-evoked flare. If the foot of sympathectomized rats was pretreated with either NPY or Y(2) receptor agonists by intra-arterial injection, the spread of flare induced by CAP injection could be restored and prolonged. However, if the spinal cord was pretreated with a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline, to prevent DRRs, NPY or an Y(2) receptor agonist no longer restored the CAP-evoked flare. A Y(1) receptor agonist did not affect the CAP-evoked flare in sympathectomized rats. In sympathetically intact rats, blockade of either peripheral NPY or Y(2) receptors with [D-Trp(32)]-NPY or BIIE0246 markedly reduced the flare induced by CAP injection, whereas blockade of peripheral Y(1) receptors by BIBP3226 did not obviously affect the flare. It is suggested that NPY is co-released with NE from the postganglionic sympathetic terminals to activate NPY Y(2) and alpha(1) receptors following CAP injection. Both substances are involved, at least in part, in modulation of the responses of CAP sensitive afferents thereby affecting their ability to evoke the release of inflammatory agents from primary afferents.