Hepatocyte growth factor as potential cardiovascular therapy. Hepatocyte growth factor is a mesenchyme-derived pleiotropic factor that regulates the growth, motility and morphogenesis of various types of cells, and is also a member of the angiogenic growth factors. Hepatocyte growth factor is secreted by vascular endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells, and the hepatocyte growth factor receptor, c-met, was also observed in these vascular cells. Treatment of human aortic endothelial cells with recombinant hepatocyte growth factor resulted in a significant increase in cell proliferation, accompanied by mitogen-activated protein kinase and Akt/protein kinase B phosphorylation. Recently, a novel therapeutic strategy for ischemic diseases using angiogenic growth factors to augment collateral artery development has been proposed. As preclinical study of gene therapy using hepatocyte growth factor to treat peripheral arterial disease, naked hepatocyte growth factor plasmid was intramuscularly injected into the ischemic hind limb of rabbits in order to evaluate its angiogenic activity. Intramuscular injection of hepatocyte growth factor plasmid once on day 10 following surgery, produced significant augmentation of collateral vessel development in the ischemic limb on day 30. In the clinical setting, the authors further investigated the safety and efficacy of hepatocyte growth factor plasmid DNA in patients with critical limb ischemia, in a prospective open-labeled trial. Intramuscular injection of naked plasmid DNA was performed in the ischemic limbs of six patients with critical limb ischemia with arteriosclerosis obliterans (n = 3) or Buerger disease (n = 3) graded as Fontaine III or IV. In the efficacy evaluation, a reduction of pain scale of more than 1 cm on a visual analog pain scale was observed in five out of six patients. An increase in ankle pressure index of more than 0.1 was observed in five out of five patients. The long diameter of eight out of 11 ischemic ulcers in four patients was reduced by more than 25%. Intramuscular injection of naked hepatocyte growth factor plasmid is safe, feasible and can achieve successful improvement of ischemic limbs. Although the present data were obtained to demonstrate safety in a Phase I/early Phase II trial, the initial clinical outcome with hepatocyte growth factor gene transfer seems to indicate its usefulness as sole therapy for critical limb ischemia. Randomized placebo-controlled clinical trials of alternative dosing regimens of gene therapy will be required to define the efficiency of this therapy.