Cryoplasty for the treatment of femoropopliteal arterial disease: results of a prospective, multicenter registry. Despite suboptimal results, angioplasty of femoropopliteal arterial lesions has been a mainstay of endovascular therapy for many years. The recent introduction of cryoplasty marks a potential advance in the ability to effectively treat peripheral arterial atherosclerotic stenoses. This article presents the results of a prospective, multicenter trial that evaluated the efficacy of cryoplasty for femoropopliteal disease.One hundred two patients with claudication and lesions of the superficial femoral and popliteal arteries of no greater than 10 cm were studied. All patients were treated with a primary strategy of stand-alone cryoplasty with use of the PolarCath cryoplasty system. The primary endpoints of the study were acute technical success and clinical patency at 9 months. Technical success was defined as the ability to achieve residual angiographic stenosis no greater than 30% and residual stenosis less than 50% by duplex ultrasound (US) imaging. Clinical patency was defined as freedom from target lesion revascularization within 9 months. Primary patency was defined by a duplex US systolic velocity ratio no greater than 2.0.A total of 102 patients were enrolled at 16 centers. Of those treated, 31% had diabetes and 31% were active cigarette smokers. The majority of the lesions were confined to the superficial femoral artery (84.3%) and 14.7% presented with total occlusions. The mean vessel diameter treated was 5.5 mm +/- 0.5, the mean stenosis diameter was 87% +/- 10%, and the mean lesion length was 4.7 cm +/- 2.6. The technical success rate was 85.3% with a mean residual stenosis after cryoplasty of 11.2% +/- 11.2% (P < .05 vs baseline). Clinical patency in this group was 82.2%, as only 16 patients required target lesion revascularization during the 9-month surveillance period. Primary patency determined by duplex US was 70.1%.Cryoplasty demonstrated a high degree of acute angiographic success and a low frequency of target lesion revascularization. The patency rate observed compares favorably to that previously documented with conventional angioplasty.