Endovascular management of iliac artery occlusions: extending treatment to TransAtlantic Inter-Society Consensus class C and D patients. The preferential use of endovascular techniques to treat complex aortoiliac disease has increased in recent years. The purpose of this study was to review the outcomes and durability of recanalization, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, and stenting for iliac occlusions based on the patient's TransAtlantic Inter-Society Consensus (TASC) stratification.Between 1998 and 2004, more than 628 patients with a clinical diagnosis of aortoiliac atherosclerotic disease underwent arteriography. The endovascular treatment of 89 consecutive patients (mean age, 66 years 58% male) with symptomatic iliac occlusions (TASC-B, -C, and -D) was the basis for this study. Original angiographic imaging was evaluated for lesion grade and runoff. Electronic and hard copy medical records were reviewed for demographic data, clinical variables, and noninvasive vascular laboratory testing. Kaplan-Meier estimators were used to determine patency rates according to Society for Vascular Surgery criteria. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed. P values of <.05 were considered significant.Recanalization and percutaneous transluminal angioplasty/stenting (total, 178 stents) of occluded iliac arteries was technically successful in 84 (91%) of 92 procedures. Patients in the TASC-C and -D groups often required multiple access sites (50%) and femoral artery endarterectomy/patch angioplasty for diffuse disease (24%). The mean ankle-brachial index increased from 0.45 to 0.83. Distal embolization led to major amputation and eventual death in one patient. Two other deaths occurred in the perioperative period secondary to cardiorespiratory causes. Three-year primary patency, secondary patency, and limb salvage rates were 76%, 90%, and 97%, respectively, and progression of infrainguinal disease led to late limb loss in two patients. Diabetes as a risk factor was significantly associated with decreased primary patency (57% vs 83% P = .049). Critical ischemia at presentation was associated with decreased patency rates as well (P = .002), but TASC classification did not significantly alter patency rates.Complex long-segment and bilateral iliac occlusions can be safely treated via endovascular means with high rates of symptom resolution. Initial technical success, low morbidity, and mid-term durability are comparable to results with open reconstruction. A liberal posture to open femoral artery reconstruction extends the ability to treat diffuse TASC-C and -D lesions via endovascular means.