Treatment of hypertension in peripheral arterial disease. Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) causes considerable morbidity and mortality. Hypertension is a risk factor for PAD. Treatment for hypertension must be compatible with the symptoms of PAD. Controversy regarding the effects of beta-blockade for hypertension in patients with PAD has led many physicians to stop prescribing beta-blockers. Little is known about the effects of other classes of anti-hypertensive drugs in the presence of PAD. This is an update of a Cochrane review first published in 2003.To determine the effects of anti-hypertensive drugs on cardiovascular events and death, symptoms of claudication, critical leg ischaemia, progression of PAD and revascularisation or amputation in people with hypertension and PAD SEARCH STRATEGY: The Cochrane Peripheral Vascular Diseases Group searched their Specialised Register (last searched May 2009) and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library 2009, Issue 2). The authors studied abstracts of cardiology meetings.Randomised controlled trials of at least one anti-hypertensive treatment against placebo, or two anti-hypertensive medications against each other, with interventions lasting at least one month. Trials had to include patients with symptomatic PAD.Data were extracted by one author (DAL) and checked by the other (GYHL). Eligible studies were excluded when results presentation prevented adequate extraction of data and enquiries to authors did not yield raw data.Four studies were included. Two compared ACE inhibitors against placebo. In the HOPE study there was a significant reduction in the number of cardiovascular events in 168 patients receiving ramipril (OR 0.72, 95% confidence interval 0.58 to 0.91). In the second trial using perindopril in a small numbers of patients, there was a marginal increase in claudication distance but no change in ankle brachial pressure index (ABPI) and a reduction in maximum walking distance.The third trial in patients undergoing angioplasty suggested that the calcium antagonist verapamil reduced restenosis, although this was not reflected in the maintenance of a high ABPI. Another small study demonstrated no significant difference in arterial intima-media thickness with men receiving the thiazide diuretic hydrochlorathiazide compared to those receiving the alpha-adrenoreceptor blocker doxazosin.Evidence on various anti-hypertensive drugs in people with PAD is poor so that it is unknown whether significant benefits or risks accrue from their use. Lack of data specifically examining outcomes in PAD patients should not detract from the compelling evidence of the benefit of treating hypertension and lowering blood pressure.