Lymph node staging by means of positron emission tomography is less accurate in non-small cell lung cancer patients with enlarged lymph nodes: analysis of 1,145 lymph nodes. Despite documented superiority of integrated positron emission tomography-computerized tomography (PET-CT) over computerized tomography (CT) in lymph node staging in non-small cell lung cancer, little is known about the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of integrated PET-CT among enlarged lymph nodes. We sought to assess if PET-CT is uniformly accurate among enlarged and non-enlarged lymph nodes.A retrospective review of 206 consecutive patients with histologically proven non-small cell lung cancer who underwent resection and/or mediastinoscopy in our centre over 30 months period was carried out. All these patients had pre-operative staging with integrated PET-CT as an adjunct to chest CT prior to resection and/or mediastinoscopy. Diabetic patients (BM>or=8.0 mmol/l) and those who received neo-adjuvant chemotherapy were excluded. The pathological results of all these cases were reviewed and correlated with those on CT and integrated PET-CT.The sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, positive and negative predictive values were higher in integrated PET-CT than CT alone in all lymph nodes, whether N1 or N2. When lymph nodes were stratified by size, the sensitivity of PET-CT was significantly higher among enlarged (>1cm) than non-enlarged (<or=1cm) lymph nodes (74% vs. 40%, P<0.0001), but with a significantly lower specificity (81% vs. 98%, P<0.0001) and a lower accuracy (78% vs. 90%, P 0.008).Integrated PET-CT remains superior to CT in nodal staging of non-small cell lung cancer. However, in the presence of enlarged lymph nodes, PET-CT becomes less specific, less accurate but more sensitive in detecting metastatic spread to the lymph nodes. Interpretation of PET-CT findings in NSCLC patients with enlarged lymph nodes (>1cm) should be with caution as the specificity of PET-CT is lower and its ability to detect truly negative nodes become reduced. NSCLC patients with enlarged nodes by CT criteria who are PET-CT negative may require cervical mediastinoscopy to rule out metastatic spread to these nodes. Prospective studies are warranted.