Significance of ST segment depression during adenosine-induced coronary hyperemia in angina pectoris and correlation with angiographic, scintigraphic, hemodynamic, and echocardiographic variables. Factors determining myocardial ischemia during adenosine-induced coronary vasodilation in patients with angina pectoris are not well defined. To evaluate the angiographic, scintigraphic, hemodynamic, and echocardiographic determinants of ST segment depression during adenosine infusion, 40 patients with angina pectoris underwent technetium-99m sestamibi single photon emission computed tomography and simultaneous two-dimensional echocardiography. Ischemic ST depression occurred in 18 patients (45%). Coronary angiography was performed in all patients and a coronary artery jeopardy score was determined. The sensitivity, specificity, and the predictive accuracy of adenosine-induced ST segment depression in detecting significant coronary artery disease were 53%, 100%, and 60%, respectively, while the corresponding results for detecting reversible perfusion defects were 61%, 92%, and 70%, respectively. Univariate predictors of ST segment depression included the coronary artery jeopardy score, the presence and the extent of reversible perfusion defects, the presence of three-vessel and/or left main coronary artery disease, and diastolic blood pressure at peak adenosine infusion. There was a trend (P = 0.06) to a higher incidence of collateral vessels in patients developing ST segment depression. The coronary artery jeopardy score was found to be the only significant independent predictor of ST segment depression by stepwise multivariate logistic regression analysis. Thus, in patients with angina pectoris, the coronary artery jeopardy score, representing the extent of significant coronary artery disease, is the most important independent predictor of adenosine-induced ST segment depression. ST depression is unusual in the absence of reversible perfusion defects and is also associated with more extensive reversible defects.