Whole animal copper flux assessed by positron emission tomography in the Long-Evans cinnamon rat--a feasibility study. Copper is an essential trace element. However, excess copper can lead to oxidation of biomolecules and cell damage and copper levels must be carefully controlled. While copper homeostasis has been studied extensively at the cellular level, short-term body copper fluxes are poorly understood. Here, we assessed for the first time the feasibility of measuring whole body copper flux by positron emission tomography, using 64Cu. A comparative approach comparing the Long-Evans cinnamon (LEC) rat to the wild type was chosen. LEC rats are an accepted model for Wilson disease, an inherited disorder of copper excretion in humans. In LEC rats as well as in Wilson patients, the copper transporting ATPase, ATP7B, is defective. This ATPase is primarily expressed in the liver and serves in copper secretion via the bile. Dysfunction of ATP7B leads to accumulation of copper in the liver. A control and an LEC rat were transgastrically injected with 10 microg of 64Cu and the copper flux followed for three hours by whole animal PET and concomitant collection of bile, as well as the analysis of tissue following tomography. As seen by PET, the administered copper was largely trapped in the stomach and the proximal intestine, and without a significant difference between control and LEC rat. Due to an insufficient dynamic range of the PET technology, copper which was systemically absorbed and primarily transported to the liver could only be followed by sampling and by beta-counting. Biliary copper excretion ensued after 15 min in the control rat, but was absent in the LEC rat. Biliary excretion reached saturation one hour after copper administration. The trapping of orally administered copper in the gastrointestinal tract may be an important mechanism to prevent copper toxicity under conditions of a sudden, excessive copper load, which cannot be alleviated by increased biliary secretion. This trapping does however limit the utility of PET to measure whole animal copper flux.