Imaging features of colorectal liver metastasis in FDG PET-CT:  a retrospective correlative analysis between CT attenuation and FDG uptake. Increasing scientific evidence supports the use of fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/ computed tomography (FDG-PET/CT) in the staging of colorectal carcinoma. A detailed and accurate characterization of tumor biology and imaging characteristics is therefore of paramount importance. The aim of our study was to determine whether CT attenuation, in Hounsfield units, was correlated with FDG uptake in colorectal liver metastasis.The clinical and imaging data of patients from our institution with histologically proven colorectal carcinoma who were referred for PET/CT staging were reviewed. For the purpose of our study, we included only those patients who had undergone dual-time-point imaging. A total of 20 patients with 62 hepatic secondaries were identified. The perlesional CT attenuation (in Hounsfield units), FDG uptake (in standardized uptake values SUV 60 and SUV 120), and size (in cm) were determined. Correlation analysis using the Spearman rank correlation coefficient was carried out.A statistically significant positive relationship was observed between perlesional CT attenuation and SUV 60 (r=0.433, P=0.0004). A similar significant positive relationship was shown between perlesional CT attenuation and SUV 120 (r=0.414, P=0.0008).Our study suggested that, in colorectal liver metastasis, FDG uptake was positively correlated with CT attenuation. If a lesion appeared to be indeterminate because of apparently low FDG avidity, internal content must be taken into consideration to minimize misdiagnosis and false negatives. We proposed that such a relationship may be due to the mucinous contents of colorectal liver metastasis or degree of tumor necrosis. Further research, particularly on quantification of the extent of mucin production and tumor necrosis, may allow a more precise relationship to be drawn between CT attenuation and FDG uptake.