<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>1997-04-12</DATELINE><TITLE>RNA-RNA recombination in Sindbis virus: roles of the 3' conserved motif, poly(A) tail, and nonviral sequences of template RNAs in polymerase recognition and template switching.</TITLE><BODY>Sindbis virus (SIN), a mosquito-transmitted animal RNA virus, carries a 11.7-kb positive-sense RNA genome which is capped and polyadenylated. We recently reported that the SIN RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) could initiate negative-strand RNA synthesis from a 0.3-kb 3'-coterminal SIN RNA fragment and undergo template switching in vivo (M. Hajjou, K. R. Hill, S. V. Subramaniam, J. Y. Hu, and R. Raju, J. Virol. 70:5153-5164, 1996). To identify and characterize the viral and nonviral sequences which regulate SIN RNA synthesis and recombination, a series of SIN RNAs carrying altered 3' ends were tested for the ability to produce infectious virus or to support recombination in BHK cells. The major findings of this report are as follows: (i) the 3'-terminal 20-nucleotides (nt) sequence along with the abutting poly(A) tail of the SIN genome fully supports negative-strand synthesis, genome replication, and template switching; (ii) a full-length SIN RNA carrying the 3'-terminal 24 nt but lacking the poly(A) tail is noninfectious; (iii) SIN RNAs which carry 3' 64 nt or more without the poly(A) tail are infectious and regain their poly(A) tail in vivo; (iv) donor templates lacking the poly(A) tail do not support template switching; (v) full-length SIN RNAs lacking the poly(A) tail but carrying 3' nonviral extensions, although debilitated to begin with, evolve into rapidly growing poly(A)-carrying mutants; (vi) poly(A) or poly(U) motifs positioned internally within the acceptor templates, in the absence of other promoter elements within the vicinity, do not induce the jumping polymerase to reinitiate at these sites; and (vii) the junction site selection on donor templates occurs independently of the sequences around the acceptor sites. In addition to furthering our understanding of RNA recombination, these studies give interesting clues as to how the alphavirus polymerase interacts with its 3' promoter elements of genomic RNA and nonreplicative RNAs. This is the first report that an in vitro-synthesized alphavirus RNA lacking a poly(A) tail can initiate infection and produce 3' polyadenylated viral genome in vivo.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>