<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>1989-11-12</DATELINE><TITLE>Receptor activity of rotavirus nonstructural glycoprotein NS28.</TITLE><BODY>Rotavirus morphogenesis involves the budding of subviral particles through the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) membrane of infected cells. During this process, particles acquire the outer capsid proteins and a transient envelope. Previous immunocytochemical and biochemical studies have suggested that a rotavirus nonstructural glycoprotein, NS28, encoded by genome segment 10, is a transmembrane RER protein and that about 10,000 Mr of its carboxy terminus is exposed on the cytoplasmic side of the RER. We have used in vitro binding experiments to examine whether NS28 serves as a receptor that binds subviral particles and mediates the budding process. Specific binding was observed between purified simian rotavirus SA11 single-shelled particles and RER membranes from SA11-infected monkey kidney cells and from SA11 gene 10 baculovirus recombinant-infected insect cells. Membranes from insect cells synthesizing VP1, VP4, NS53, VP6, VP7, or NS26 did not possess binding activity. Comparison of the binding of single-shelled particles to microsomes from infected monkey kidney cells and from insect cells indicated that a membrane-associated component(s) from SA11-infected monkey kidney cells interfered with binding. Direct evidence showing the interaction of NS28 and its nonglycosylated 20,000-Mr precursor expressed in rabbit reticulocyte lysates and single-shelled particles was obtained by cosedimentation of preformed receptor-ligand complexes through sucrose gradients. The domain on NS28 responsible for binding also was characterized. Reduced binding of single-shelled particles to membranes was seen with membranes treated with (i) a monoclonal antibody previously shown to interact with the C terminus of NS28, (ii) proteases known to cleave the C terminus of NS28, and (iii) the Enzymobead reagent. VP6 on single-shelled particles was suggested to interact with NS28 because (i) a monoclonal antibody to the subgroup I epitope on VP6 reduced particle binding, (ii) a purified polyclonal antiserum raised against recombinant baculovirus-produced VP6 reduced ligand binding, and (iii) a monoclonal antibody to a conserved epitope on VP6 augmented ligand binding. These experimental data provide support for the hypothesized receptor role of NS28 before the budding stage of rotavirus morphogenesis.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>