Roux-en-Y venting jejunostomy in pancreatic transplantation: a novel approach to monitor rejection and prevent anastomotic leak. Pancreatic transplantation (PTx) with portal venous delivery of insulin and enteric drainage of the exocrine secretion is more physiologic than bladder-systemic (BS) drainage. With portal-enteric (PE) PTx, the diagnosis of acute rejection (AR) requires a percutaneous biopsy. The roux-en-y (RNY) venting jejunostomy in patients with PEPTx offers a novel approach to monitor rejection and prevent anastomatic leaks.From January 1996 to December 1998, we performed 17 simultaneous kidney/pancreas transplants (SKPTx). The initial 4 patients underwent BS drainage and the subsequent 13 patients underwent RNY venting jejunostomy with PE drainage. All patients were treated with quadruple therapy. There were 9 males, 14 patients were Caucasian with a mean age of 32 yr (range 30-54 yr), and a mean pre-transplantation duration of diabetes of 25 yr. Six patients underwent endoscopic donor duodenal biopsy through the jejunostomy to rule out clinically suspected AR. Gastrograffin was inserted into the jejunostomy to examine the integrity of anastamosis when indicated. In 9 out of 13 patients, the venting jejunostomy was taken down 9-12 months post-transplantation after allograft function was stable.Actual patient, kidney, and pancreas graft survival rates were 100, 100 and 94%, respectively, after a mean follow-up of 16 months. Renal allografts functioned immediately in 89% of patients. The mean length of hospital stay was 19 d. Four (23%) patients (2 with BS drainage and 2 with PE drainage) suffered an AR episode in the first month, and 4 (23%) patients had five AR from 3-36 months post-transplantation. Other complications were post-operative bleeding in 3 patients, wound infection in 2 patients and a proximal duodenal stump leak in 1 patient. In patients with clinical rejection, endoscopy through the venting jejunostomy showed inflamed, friable doudenal mucosa and doudenal biopsy findings were compatible with AR.These preliminary results suggest that RNY venting jejunostomy with PE drainage can be used safely to diagnose and monitor pancreas AR and to diagnose and prevent anastamotic leaks. This technique will be even more useful to visualize transplanted duodenal mucosa, collect pancreatic secretions (amylase) for analysis and perform endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography if needed to obtain pancreatic biopsies.