Virulence factors of Escherichia coli isolated from female reproductive tract infections and neonatal sepsis. The presence of enterobacteria such as Escherichia coli in the vagina of normal women is not synonymous with infection. However, vaginal E. coli may also cause symptomatic infections. We examined bacterial virulence properties that may promote symptomatic female reproductive tract infections (RTI) and neonatal sepsis.E. coli isolated as the causative agent from cases of vaginitis (n = 50), tubo-ovarian abscess (n = 45) and neonatal sepsis (n = 45) was examined for selected phenotypic and genetic virulence properties. Results were compared with the frequency of the same properties among fecal E. coli not associated with disease.A significantly greater proportion of infection E. coli exhibited D-mannose resistant hemagglutination compared with fecal E. coli (p < 0.01). This adherence phenotype was associated with the presence of P fimbriae (pap) genes which were also significantly more prevalent among isolates from all three infection sites (p < 0.01). The majority of pap+ isolates contained the papG3 allele (Class II) regardless of infection type. Increased frequency of Type IC genes among vaginitis and abscess isolates was also noted. No significant differences in frequency of other bacterial adherence genes, fim, sfa, uca (gaf or dra were observed. E. coli associated with vaginitis was significantly more likely to be hemolytic (Hly+) than were fecal isolates (p < 0.05). The Hly+ phenotype was also more prevalent among tubo-ovarian abscess and neonatal sepsis isolates (p < 0.08).E. coli isolated from female RTI and neonatal sepses possess unique properties that may enhance their virulence. These properties are similar to those associated with other E. coli extra-intestinal infections, indicating that strategies such as vaccination or bacterial interference that may be developed against urinary tract infections (UTI) and other E. coli extra-intestinal infections may also prevent selected female RTI.