Clinical significance of detecting neonatal peripheral blood mononuclear cells infected by HBV. To understand the HBV infection rate of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from fetuses of HBsAg positive mothers, associated risk factors and to explore the clinical significance of detecting HBV infected PBMCs.Sixty eight pregnant women who were delivered at the First Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University, China from August 1995 to February 1997, and their newborns were studied. They were divided into two groups according to their status of HBV serological markers. The study group included 50 cases who were serum HBsAg positive and 18 cases without any HBV serum markers served as control group. All these cases had no symptoms of hepatitis, high risk premature labor, premature delivery and hypertensive disorder complicating pregnancy. Age and gestational age were matched in two groups. Blood samples (5 mL) were taken from the peripheral vein of pregnant women before delivery and from newborns within 24 h after birth, before inoculation of HBV vaccine (HBVac) and injection of hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG). PBMCs were isolated. The sera and PBMCs were stored at -80 degrees C. HBV-DNA in serum and PBMCs were detected with nested polymerase chain reaction (n-PCR). Two pairs of oligonucleotide primers, the outer primer pair for first PCR and inner primer pair for second PCR, designed according to region S of HBV genome were synthesized by Shanghai Cell Biology Institute of Chinese Academy of Science.The detection rate of HBV-DNA in serum and PBMCs from HBsAg positive pregnant women was 60.0% (30/50) and 40.0% (20/50), respectively. The detection rate of HBV-DNA in serum and PBMCs from newborns of HBsAg positive pregnant women was 46.0% (23/50) and 30.0% (15/50), respectively. Ten newborns were HBV-DNA positive in serum only, 2 were positive in PBMCs only and 13 were positive in both serum and PBMCs. In the control group, HBV-DNA was not detected in PBMC nor in serum. The positive rate of HBV-DNA in PBMCs of newborns was significantly higher in the group of mothers who were HBV-DNA or HBeAg positive in serum (P < 0.05, P < 0.01) the positive rate was significantly higher in the group of mothers who were HBV-DNA positive in both serum and PBMC than that in the group of mothers who were serum HBV-DNA positive only (P < 0.01)The positive rate of HBV-DNA in PBMCs from newborns of HBsAg positive pregnant women was 30.0% (15/30). It was related to HBV viremia level and HBV-DNA status in PBMCs of mothers and newborns. Detection of HBV-DNA in PBMCs may be an important supplementary method to determine intrauterine HBV infection, and can predict the response to HBV vaccine.