ThinPrep evaluation of fluid samples aspirated from cystic ovarian masses. The cytological evaluation of ovarian cystic fluid using ThinPrep has not been reported. To determine the diagnostic accuracy of ThinPrep cytology in distinguishing between benign and nonbenign ovarian cystic lesions, we examined 65 fluid samples aspirated during intraoperative consultation with subsequent histologic correlation. One ThinPrep slide was prepared from each sample aspirated from surgically removed ovarian cystic masses and reviewed blindly by a panel of three cytopathologists. The parameters used in cytological evaluation were cellularity, cell types, cellular arrangement, and background. Four samples were acellular and excluded from the study. The consensus cytologic diagnoses were compiled for 61 cases which were assigned to one of the following diagnostic categories: negative for malignant cells (40 cases), atypical cytology (13 cases), and suspicious or positive for malignancy (8 cases). Histologic correlation of the cytological benign/negative cases showed that 26/40 (65%) were histologically benign and 14/40 were false-negative (35%, 5 carcinomas and 9 borderline tumors) with 10 of these cases being mucinous tumors. Most false-negative cytologic samples (11/14 or 79%) did not have an epithelial component. Of the 21 cytological nonbenign diagnoses (atypical/suspicious/positive), 15 (71%) were confirmed on histology (10 carcinomas and 5 borderline tumors). However, a nonbenign cytologic diagnosis was rendered in 6 histologically benign cases, including 2 serous cystadenomas, 1 mucinous cystadenoma, 1 serous cystadenofibroma, 1 endometriosis, and 1 corpus luteal cyst. The diagnostic sensitivity by ThinPrep evaluation of ovarian cystic masses is 81% (26/32) for benign and 52% (15/29) for nonbenign lesions. Our results concluded that ThinPrep examination of ovarian cystic fluid is not accurate in distinguishing benign from malignant cysts, given the significant number of false-negative diagnoses. Major contributing factors include sparse cellularity of the fluid samples and mucinous differentiation of the tumors.