Different HLA-DR expression in endometriotic and adenomyotic lesions: correlation with transvaginal ultrasonography findings. Human leukocyte antigen-DR (HLA-DR) has been implicated in eutopic and ectopic glandular epithelial cells in endometriosis. We investigated the expression of HLA-DR in endometriotic and adenomyotic tissues within the stromal and glandular cells. Moreover, we correlate the HLA-DR expression according the transvaginal ultrasonography findings.We studied operative and pathologic reports of 113 women who underwent laparoscopic or laparotomy treatment of endometrioma or adenomyosis. Tissues from 51 women with endometrioma and 62 women with adenomyosis were retrospectively evaluated. The distribution and intensity of the HLA-DR immunostaining was assessed using electron microscopy. Pathologic finding of the uterine junction zone and the size of endometrioma were evaluated with the laparoscopic results and the ultrasound findings.In adenomyosis tissues, the percentage of HLA-DR cells expression was significantly higher in stromal cells (83.9%) compared to glandular cells (25.8%), (p<0.001). The number of HLA-DR-positive endometriotic glandular cells was significantly higher than the total glandular adenomyotic cells (p<0.005). HLA-DR-positive cells was significantly different between stromal (p<0.016) and glandular cells (p<0.044) in each side of endometrioma. Finally, HLA-DR-positive percentage cells were significantly more frequent in the secretory phase than the proliferative in stromal and glandular cells in both groups.HLA-DR antigen expression in endometrium and adenomyotic tissues. However, HLA-DR expression is distributed preferentially in glandular epithelial cells in endometrioma and in the adenomyotic stroma. In both groups the HLA-DR expression was significantly higher in the secretory phase than the proliferative or glandular and stroma cells. Larger perspective studies are needed to establish the expression of HLA antigens in immune reactions which occur in adenomyosis and endometriosis.