Lymphadenectomy as a prognostic marker in uterine non-endometrioid carcinoma. A pelvic lymphadenectomy with or without para-aortic lymphadenectomy is performed during surgery for endometrial cancer at least in high-risk patients for recurrence or progression. The question of whether pelvic and/or para-aortic lymphadenectomy improves survival rates of high-risk patients with uterine non-endometrioid carcinoma is still unclear. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the outcome of patients with uterine non-endometrioid cancer, with regard to the performance of a lymphadenectomy in a well-characterized cohort population.The prognostic value of a performed lymphadenectomy was examined in 55 patients with a histological diagnosis of a uterine non-endometrioid carcinoma. A performed lymphadenectomy was analyzed with respect to the surgical and pathological stage and characteristics.Of the 55 patients with an uterine non-endometrioid carcinoma, 38 (69.1%) and 2 (3.6%) patients were diagnosed in FIGO stage I and II, respectively, while 14 (25.5%) patients had FIGO stage III and 1 patient (1.8%) presented with metastatic disease (FIGO IV). 16 patients (29.1%) demonstrated a myometrial invasion of more than 50%, while a cervical and ovarian involvement could be observed in 7 (12.7%) and 9 (16.4%) cases, respectively. Pelvic and/or para-aortic lymph node sampling was performed for 42 patients (76.4%) while 7 patients (12.7%) demonstrated lymph node metastasis. Univariate survival analysis demonstrated no differences in progression-free survival, cause-specific survival or overall survival for a performed lymphadenectomy. Regression analysis led to a model containing only the FIGO surgical stage as an independent term that was predictive of progression-free survival, cause-specific survival and overall survival.Although a performed lymphadenectomy did not have any positive benefit in the survival of patients with uterine non-endometrioid carcinomas in this study, it might provide important prognostic information with a subsequent adjuvant treatment. However, these results remain to be confirmed in further larger and prospective studies.