Well-differentiated papillary mesothelioma of the female peritoneum:  a clinicopathologic study of 26 cases. Well-differentiated papillary mesothelioma (WDPM) is an uncommon mesothelial tumor that occurs in the peritoneum of women over a wide age range. Although considered a tumor of uncertain malignant potential, information about its biological behavior is still limited. In this study, we present the clinicopathologic features of 26 cases of WDPM of the female peritoneum seen in our institution over a 20-year period (1990 to 2010). Clinical information and pathology material were reviewed in all cases. Patients ranged in age from 23 to 75 years (median, 47 y mean, 48.6 y). There was no history of asbestos exposure in any of our cases. Ten patients had undergone surgery previously, and 6 had a history of endometriosis. In 24 patients, the WDPM was an incidental finding during surgery for a benign or malignant lesion. Only 2 patients presented with symptoms: 1 with an acute abdomen and the other with chronic pelvic pain. The former had developed a small hemoperitoneum because of bleeding of 1 of the lesions of WDPM, whereas the latter had a 2-cm WDPM involving the distal fallopian tube. The lesions were single or multiple (13 cases each) and ranged in size from 0.1 cm to 2 cm. The following sites were involved: abdominal or pelvic peritoneum not otherwise specified (10 cases), omentum (7 cases), cul-de-sac (6 cases), colonic serosa (4 cases), small bowel mesentery (2 cases), uterine serosa (2 cases), stomach serosa (1 case), large bowel mesentery (1 case), fallopian tube (1 case), ovary (1 case), and inguinal hernia (1 case). In all cases the lesions were excised. Microscopically, all of our cases had the typical features described for WDPM (ie, a papillary architecture that may be accompanied by glandular/tubular patterns, nests of cells and individual cells, bland mesothelial cells, absent or rare mitotic figures). The initial diagnosis in our cases was variable, including WDPM, mesothelial hyperplasia, malignant mesothelioma, serous tumor of low malignant potential of the peritoneum, papillary endosalpingiosis, and chronic xanthogranulomatous salpingiosis. Follow-up was obtained for 25 patients, and it ranged from 4 to 192 months (mean, 47.5 mo