Ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma:  incidence and clinical significance of the morphologic and immunohistochemical markers of mismatch repair protein defects and tumor microsatellite instability. A subset of women with uterine cancer exhibiting defective mismatch repair (MMR) proteins and microsatellite instability (MSI) may have Lynch syndrome, which also confers a risk for colorectal cancer and other cancers in the patient and in her family. Screening algorithms based on clinical and pathologic criteria are effective in determining which patients with uterine cancer are most likely to benefit from definitive genetic testing for Lynch syndrome. Ovarian cancer, particularly endometrioid adenocarcinoma, is also associated with Lynch syndrome, although the risk is much smaller than for uterine cancer. This study evaluated whether the morphologic criteria [tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), peritumoral lymphocytes (PTLs), dedifferentiated morphology)] currently used to screen uterine cancer for further Lynch syndrome testing can be applied to ovarian cancer. Among 71 patients with pure ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma treated at a single institution, 13% had a tumor with TILs, 3% had PTLs, and none had dedifferentiated morphology. Overall, 10% of tumors had abnormal MMR protein status, defined as complete immunohistochemical loss of expression of MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and/or PMS2. Each of these tumors with abnormal MMR status demonstrated MSI using a polymerase chain reaction-based assay evaluating 5 mononucleotide repeat markers. No relationship was found between patient age, TILs, PTLs, or a spectrum of other morphologic variables and MMR protein status/MSI. Only 1/7 tumors with abnormal MMR/MSI had TILs/PTLs. Among 14 patients who died, 12 (86%) had normal MMR status. Among 7 patients with tumors with abnormal MMR/MSI, 5 (71%) were alive without disease. Concurrent uterine tumor was present in 5/7 patients whose ovarian tumor had abnormal MMR/MSI. This study suggests that the morphologic criteria used to screen patients with uterine cancer for further Lynch syndrome testing are not applicable in patients with ovarian cancer. Although abnormal MMR/MSI did not carry prognostic value in this study, it did predict the involvement of the uterus by the tumor. Thus, in patients with ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma who undergo uterus-sparing surgery, abnormal MMR/MSI should prompt further diagnostic evaluation of the endometrium for tumor.