The response of human endometriotic implants to the anti-progesterone steroid R 2323: a histologic and ultrastructural study. The histology and ultrastructure of small endometriotic lesions were studied in 19 patients before and after hormonal therapy with the anti-progesterone steroid R 2323 (Gestrinone). Histologic results demonstrate that treatment of endometriosis with this steroid does not result in complete elimination of the endometriotic foci, although glandular proliferation and secretion are arrested in most implants. The ultrastructural results indicate that this inhibition of proliferation and secretion is related to an enhanced activity of the lysosomal system in the epithelial cells of some endometriotic foci. In other implants, or even in other cells of the same foci, epithelial cells with only a small amount of supranuclear cytoplasm but lacking lysosomes may be found. The morphologic data demonstrate that the cellular involutionary response to the antiprogesterone drug Gestrinone involves an activation of the lysosomal system, an abortive apocrine secretion of cell remnants and finally, in some implants, an extrusion of individual epithelial cells. Since this involutionary process of endometriotic cells mimics the pre-menstrual lysosomal degradation in the endometrium, it is suggested that the competitive binding of the antiprogesterone Gestrinone to the progesterone receptors of endometriotic epithelium may cause a cellular progesterone withdrawal effect.Light microscopic histology and transmission electron microscopic ultrastructure were studied in selected endometriotic biopsies from 19 women before and after treatment with Gestrinone (R 2323, Roussel-Uclaf, Paris).  The subjects took 2.5 mg Gestrinone for 4 months, 2 or 3 times weekly.  Biopsies were obtained with a 3 mm Wolf punch forcepts from the pouch of Douglas, uterovesical fold, ovaran fossa and ovary.  Glandular development was arrested in most of the implants, but the number of foci did not fall significantly.  Before treatment, the glandular cells were cuboidal or tall, with well developed glycogen bodies, nucleoli, active apical supranuclear areas, long apical microvilli, active RER systems and small lysosomes.  The stroma had active nuclei and cell processes connecting neighboring cells.  After treatment, the glazndual cells were cuboidal or low, with denser nuclei, many intraluminal extrusions, and darkly stained, heterogeneous autophagic vacuoles up to 2.6 mcm in diameter.  Glycogen, cilia, microfilaments, and apical perinuclear cytoplasm were rare.  Numerous thick bundles of microfilaments crossed or encircled the perinuclear cytoplasm.  The stroma resembled fibrocytes, with occasional lipofuscin bodies and vacuolated phagocytes.  Stromal capillaries remained unchanged.  Generally thehe ectopic stroma was less affected, only becoming less differectiated.  The picture of lysosomal involution of the endometriotic cells resembled the physiological hormonal withdrawal seen in the end of the cycle.