<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-12-12</DATELINE><TITLE>Autophagy Promotes Replication of Influenza A Virus In Vitro</TITLE><BODY>Influenza A virus (IAV) infection could induce autophagosome accumulation. However, the impact of the autophagy machinery on IAV infection remains controversial. Here, we showed that induction of cellular autophagy by starvation or rapamycin treatment increases progeny virus production, while disruption of autophagy using a small interfering RNA (siRNA) and pharmacological inhibitor reduces progeny virus production. Further studies revealed that alteration of autophagy significantly affects the early stages of the virus life cycle or viral RNA synthesis. Importantly, we demonstrated that overexpression of both the IAV M2 and NP proteins alone leads to the lipidation of LC3 to LC3-II and a redistribution of LC3 from the cytosol to punctate vesicles indicative of authentic autophagosomes. Intriguingly, both M2 and NP colocalize and interact with LC3 puncta during M2 or NP transfection alone and IAV infection, leading to an increase in viral ribonucleoprotein (vRNP) export and infectious viral particle formation, which indicates that the IAV-host autophagy interaction plays a critical role in regulating IAV replication. We showed that NP and M2 induce the AKT-mTOR-dependent autophagy pathway and an increase in HSP90AA1 expression. Finally, our studies provided evidence that IAV replication needs an autophagy pathway to enhance viral RNA synthesis via the interaction of PB2 and HSP90AA1 by modulating HSP90AA1 expression and the AKT-mTOR signaling pathway in host cells. Collectively, our studies uncover a new mechanism that NP- and M2-mediated autophagy functions in different stages of virus replication in the pathogenicity of influenza A virus. IMPORTANCE Autophagy impacts the replication cycle of many viruses. However, the role of the autophagy machinery in IAV replication remains unclear. Therefore, we explored the detailed mechanisms utilized by IAV to promote its replication. We demonstrated that IAV NP- and M2-mediated autophagy promotes IAV replication by regulating the AKT-mTOR signaling pathway and HSP90AA1 expression. The interaction of PB2 and HSP90AA1 results in the increase of viral RNA synthesis first; subsequently the binding of NP to LC3 favors vRNP export, and later the interaction of M2 and LC3 leads to an increase in the production of infectious viral particles, thus accelerating viral progeny production. These findings improve our understanding of IAV pathogenicity in host cells.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>