<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2017-10-04</DATELINE><TITLE>Painting the Gown Red: Using a Colored Paint Quality Improvement Process to Evaluate Healthcare Worker Personal Protective Equipment for Highly Pathogenic Infections</TITLE><BODY>BACKGROUND: Personal protective equipment (PPE) and strict infection control techniques are the primary methods by which healthcare workers (HCW) can avoid exposure during the treatment of patients with highly pathogenic infections such as Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) or the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV). There is currently no consensus for the types of PPE that are recommended to be worn by HCWs, nor is there a universal process for the donning and doffing of PPE. METHODS: HCWs from Bellevue Hospital participate in quarterly PPE trainings as part of the Special Pathogens Program (SPP), which consist of didactic sessions as well as an evaluation of donning and doffing techniques. A total of 50 HCWs completed the training curriculum in 2017. During the doffing process, PPE trainers applied corn start powder paint (Chameleon Colors; American Fork, UT) to the participants’ gloved hands between multiple steps of PPE removal. At the end of the process, the areas where paint was found on was documented including the outer surgical gown, the powered air purifying respirator (PAPR) helmet and shroud, the inner impermeable suit, the knee-high boots and boot covers, and the extended-cuff gloves. RESULTS: The areas of PPE that were most marked with paint were the lower shoulders and upper arms of the surgical gowns, the top sides of the PAPR shroud, the front upper chest area, and the center back of the inner impermeable suits. In a majority of cases no powder paint was noted on the knee-high boots. In a minority of cases, paint was observed on the inside upper chest area of the surgical gown. These paint markings were used to discuss potential breaches in PPE doffing technique in real-time, as well as identify areas to target in future PPE trainings. CONCLUSION: The powdered paint quality improvement process for donning and doffing PPE is a method to evaluate the complex PPE dressing procedure. It is particularly useful given the fact that it is incumbent on each hospital or healthcare system to develop its own processes and procedures for PPE, as well as maintain readiness through periodic trainings. Powdered paint can identify vulnerabilities in their process as well as areas that require further education. DISCLOSURES: All authors: No reported disclosures.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>