<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2007-04-17</DATELINE><TITLE>Decisions under uncertainty: a computational framework for quantification of policies addressing infectious disease epidemics</TITLE><BODY>Emerging infectious diseases continue to place a strain on the welfare of the population by decreasing the population’s general health and increasing the burden on public health infrastructure. This paper addresses these issues through the development of a computational framework for modeling and simulating infectious disease outbreaks in a specific geographic region facilitating the quantification of public health policy decisions. Effectively modeling and simulating past epidemics to project current or future disease outbreaks will lead to improved control and intervention policies and disaster preparedness. In this paper, we introduce a computational framework that brings together spatio–temporal geography and population demographics with specific disease pathology in a novel simulation paradigm termed, global stochastic field simulation (GSFS). The primary aim of this simulation paradigm is to facilitate intelligent what-if-analysis in the event of health crisis, such as an influenza pandemic. The dynamics of any epidemic are intrinsically related to a region’s spatio–temporal characteristics and demographic composition and as such, must be considered when developing infectious disease control and intervention strategies. Similarly, comparison of past and current epidemics must include demographic changes into any effective public health policy for control and intervention strategies. GSFS is a hybrid approach to modeling, implicitly combining agent-based modeling with the cellular automata paradigm. Specifically, GSFS is a computational framework that will facilitate the effective identification of risk groups in the population and determine adequate points of control, leading to more effective surveillance and control of infectious diseases epidemics. The analysis of past disease outbreaks in a given population and the projection of current or future epidemics constitutes a significant challenge to Public Health. The corresponding design of computational models and the simulation that facilitates epidemiologists’ understanding of the manifestation of diseases represents a challenge to computer and mathematical sciences.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>