<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2014-11-05</DATELINE><TITLE>Purification, primary structure, and biological activity of the high-mannose N-glycan-specific lectin from cultivated Eucheuma denticulatum</TITLE><BODY>Three isolectins from cultivated Eucheuma denticulatum were isolated. They were commonly monomeric proteins of about 28 kDa with a range of averaged molecular weights from 27,834 to 27,868 Da among the isolectins and shared almost the same 20 N-terminal amino acid sequences. Complementary DNA (cDNA) cloning based on the rapid amplification cDNA ends (RACE) methods elucidated the full-length sequence of EDA-2 which encodes 269 amino acids, including initiating methionine, with four tandemly repeated domains of about 67 amino acids. The primary structure of EDA-2 is highly similar to those of the high-mannose N-glycan specific lectins including Oscillatoria agardhii (OAA) and Burkholderia oklahomensis EO147 (BOA) from cyanobacteria, Myxococcus xanthus (MBHA) and Pseudomonas fluorescens Pf0-1 (PFL) from bacteria, and ESA-2 from a macro red alga. The hemagglutination activities were commonly inhibited by the glycoproteins bearing high-mannose N-glycans, but not by monosaccharides examined, including mannose. In a direct binding experiment with pyridylaminated oligosaccharides, an isolectin EDA-2 exclusively bound to high-mannose type N-glycans, but not to other glycans that include complex types and a core pentasaccharide of N-glycans, indicating that it recognized the branched oligomannoside moiety. Its binding activity was subtly different among the oligomannoside structures examined, showing that the lectin has preference affinity for high-mannose type N-glycans with an exposed (α1-3) mannose residue in the D2 arm. Interestingly, EDAs, the mixture of three isolectins inhibited the growth of shrimp pathogenic bacterium, Vibrio alginolyticus, although it did not affect the growth of V. parahaemolyticus and V. harveyi. Growth inhibition of V. alginolyticus with EDAs was not observed in the presence of yeast mannan bearing high-mannose N-glycans, suggesting that EDAs caused the activity through binding to the target receptor(s) on the surface of V. alginolyticus. These results indicate that cultivated carrageenophyte E. denticulatum is a good source of a lectin(s) that may be useful as a carbohydrate probe and an antibacterial reagent.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>