<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2017-12-13</DATELINE><TITLE>Structural Basis for the Inhibition of Host Gene Expression by Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus nsp1</TITLE><BODY>Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV), an enteropathogenic Alphacoronavirus, has caused enormous economic losses in the pork industry. Nonstructural protein 1 (nsp1) is a characteristic feature of alpha- and betacoronaviruses, which exhibits both functional conservation and mechanistic diversity in inhibiting host gene expression and antiviral responses. However, the detailed structure and molecular mechanisms underlying the Alphacoronavirus nsp1 inhibition of host gene expression remain unclear. Here, we report the first full-length crystal structure of Alphacoronavirus nsp1 from PEDV. The structure displays a six-stranded β-barrel fold in the middle of two α-helices. The core structure of PEDV nsp1 shows high similarity to those of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) nsp1 and transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) nsp1, despite its low degree of sequence homology. Using ribopuromycylation and Renilla luciferase reporter assays, we showed that PEDV nsp1 can dramatically inhibit general host gene expression. Furthermore, three motifs (amino acids [aa] 67 to 71, 78 to 85, and 103 to 110) of PEDV nsp1 create a stable functional region for inhibiting protein synthesis, differing considerably from Betacoronavirus nsp1. These results elucidate the detailed structural basis through which PEDV nsp1 inhibits host gene expression, providing insight into the development of a new attenuated vaccine with nsp1 modifications. IMPORTANCE Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) has led to tremendous economic losses in the global swine industry. PEDV nsp1 plays a crucial role in inhibiting host gene expression, but its functional mechanism remains unclear. Here, we report the full-length structure of PEDV nsp1, the first among coronaviruses to be reported. The 1.25-Å resolution crystal structure of PEDV nsp1 shows high similarity to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) nsp1(13–128) and transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) nsp1(1–104), despite a lack of sequence homology. Structural and biochemical characterization demonstrated that PEDV nsp1 possesses a stable functional region for inhibition of host protein synthesis, which is formed by loops at residues 67 to 71, 78 to 85, and 103 to 110. The different functional regions in PEDV nsp1 and SARS-CoV nsp1 may explain their distinct mechanisms. Importantly, our structural data are conducive to understanding the mechanism of PEDV nsp1 inhibition of the expression of host genes and may aid in the development of a new attenuated vaccine.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>