Ferumoxides-enhanced double-echo T2-weighted MR imaging in differentiating metastases from nonsolid benign lesions of the liver. To investigate whether ferumoxides-enhanced double-echo T2-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging alone can allow differentiation of metastases from benign lesions in the noncirrhotic liver.At retrospective review of files and images, 60 lesions (22 metastases, 20 hemangiomas, and 18 cysts) were identified in 42 patients. All fast spin-echo T2-weighted MR images obtained before and after administration of ferumoxides with short (80-90 msec) and long (180-250 msec) echo times (TEs) were acquired with a 1.5-T system. Differences in lesion-to-liver signal intensity ratio between images obtained with long and short TEs were calculated. Data from all 60 lesions were entered into a receiver operating characteristic analysis. Three independent readers scored their observations of each lesion with a confidence level of 1-5. The diagnostic accuracy of each analysis method was determined by calculating the area under each reader-specific receiver operating characteristic curve. Interobserver agreement was calculated with the use of chance-corrected kappa statistics. Relative sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of characterizing benign lesions with each method were calculated.Markedly low signal intensity and lesion-to-liver ratio on ferumoxides-enhanced images were observed with hemangioma. The difference of lesion-to-liver ratio between long and short TEs on ferumoxides-enhanced images was significantly different from that of unenhanced images and that of metastases or cysts. Interobserver agreement was good to excellent. Ferumoxides-enhanced images (with short and long TEs) showed significantly higher diagnostic accuracy than that of unenhanced images (with short or short and long TEs). Ferumoxides-enhanced images showed similar sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy when all images were reviewed together.Ferumoxides-enhanced T2-weighted MR images appear useful in differentiating metastases from benign (nonsolid) lesions in the liver.