Efaproxiral: GSJ 61, JP 4, KDD 86, RS 4, RSR 13. Efaproxiral [RSR 13, GSJ 61, JP 4, KDD 86, RS 4] is a synthetic, small-molecule, radiation-sensitising agent being developed by Allos Therapeutics primarily for the treatment of cancer. It works by binding and allosterically stabilising deoxyhaemoglobin in hypoxic regions of tumour tissue. This increases oxygen uptake of the tumour tissue and restores its sensitivity to radiation therapy, making therapy potentially more successful. This first-of-its-class compound is particularly applicable for the treatment of certain tumour types that lack oxygen, such as brain metastases. In contrast to conventional chemotherapeutic agents or radiation sensitisers, there is no requirement for efaproxiral to be administered directly into tumours or to cross the blood-brain barrier for it to display efficacy. Efaproxiral is under review for approval in the US and EU as an adjunct to whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT) for the treatment of brain metastases originating from breast cancer. It is also under clinical evaluation for a variety of other cancers, including glioblastoma, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and cervical cancer. Allos is seeking partnership opportunities for efaproxiral's development and marketing. The company has indicated that the development of efaproxiral would be in cooperation with a corporate partner, according to its 2003 Annual Report. In 1994, Allos Therapeutics acquired exclusive worldwide rights to intellectual property relating to efaproxiral from the Center for Innovative Technology (CIT). Allos has entered into arrangements with two contract manufacturers for the supply of efaproxiral, and a third manufacturer for the supply of the formulated drug product. Hovione FarmaCiencia is the primary supplier of efaproxiral, and is contracted to manufacture sufficient quantities on a commercial scale. In addition, a second manufacturer, Raylo Chemicals, is also producing quantities of efaproxiral. In December 2003, Allos entered into a long-term development and supply agreement with Baxter Healthcare who will formulate the efaproxiral into an injection. Allos is also seeking to establish an alternate supplier of efaproxiral injection. Allos submitted a rolling NDA to the US FDA consisting of three data components. Submission began in the third quarter of 2003 and was completed by the fourth quarter of 2003. The first part of the application containing non-clinical information was submitted on 5 August 2003. The second part of the NDA containing information about efaproxiral's chemistry, manufacture and controls (CMC) was submitted in October 2003. Allos submitted its final component of the rolling NDA in December 2003. In February 2004, Allos announced that the FDA had accepted the company's NDA under priority review status. The FDA granted efaproxiral orphan drug status in August 2004 as an adjunct to WBRT for the treatment of brain metastases among breast cancer patients. Efaproxiral also received fast-track status in November 2000 for the same indication in the US. In February 2004, Allos initiated a phase III trial, called ENRICH (Enhancing Whole Brain Radiation Therapy In Patients with Breast Cancer and Hypoxic Brain Metastases) to investigate efaproxiral as an adjunct to WBRT for the treatment of brain metastases. Median survival time is the primary endpoint of the study. The National Breast Cancer Coalition (NBCC) is collaborating with the company to support trial enrolment and to gain additional insight about ways to improve radiation treatment in this patient population. The ENRICH trial protocol was approved by the FDA under a Special Protocol Assessment process as part of the protocol, two interim analyses for safety and efficacy will be performed.This multicentre, randomised, open-label study has a target enrolment of approximately 360 patients at >100 medical centres across the US, Canada, Europe and South America. Allos announced in September 2004 that recruitment of clinical sites for the trial is ongoing across the US and Canada. Completion of trial enrolment in North America is anticipated in December 2005. Subsequently, Allos announced in January 2005 that recruitment into the ENRICH trial has commenced and is ongoing in Europe