Role of endoscopic intervention in biliary complications of hepatic hydatid cyst disease. Biliary complications of hepatic hydatidosis are often difficult to detect and manage. The aim of this study was to present our experience on the effectiveness of endoscopic treatment modalities in cases of biliary complications of hepatic hydatid cysts.Over the past 10 years, 15 patients diagnosed with hepatic hydatidosis and manifesting symptoms and signs indicative of biliary involvement were examined by means of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) in our Gastroenterology Endoscopic Unit 7 patients had already been operated on for hepatic hydatid cystsBiliary complications of hydatid cysts were detected by ERCP in 9 patients (60%). Eight (88.9%) patients displayed a communication between the hydatid cyst or its residual cavity and the biliary tree 5 patients had daughter cysts or residual hydatid material within the biliary tree, 1 patient had a biliocutaneous fistula, 1 patient a postoperative biliary leakage and 1 patient had only an opacification of the hydatid cyst during ERCP. In one patient, ERCP showed stenoses of both of the main hepatic ducts due to their compression by the cyst. Jaundice (88.9%), fever (33.3%) and right upper quadrant abdominal pain (88.9%) were the most frequent manifestations. These complications were demonstrated by US and CT imaging in only 25% of the cases. Four patients underwent ERCP before surgery and 5 after surgery. Endoscopic management was successful in all patients, resulting in clearance of the biliary tree, closure of fistulas, stopping of biliary leakage and jaundice remission. No serious endoscopy-related complications were recorded, with the exception of a pulmonary hydatid cyst rupture during ERCP.This study suggests that endoscopic treatment modalities are helpful and safe methods in the treatment of biliary complications of hepatic hydatidosis before and after definitive surgical management of the hydatid cysts.