Preoperatory sonography efficiency in paediatric patients with cholelithiasis undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Biliary lithiasis is not much frequent in paediatric patients. The manegement of cholelithiasis in patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy is still controversial. We propose the preoperatory echographic study of the biliary tree 24-48 h before surgery, as the first choice, instead of the intraoperatory cholangiography.We made a retrospective study of 42 patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy due to symptomatic biliary lithiasis during the last 15 years, with ages between 18 months and 17-years-old (mean age 9,6-years-old) and weight between 11 and 70 kg (mean weight 42 kg) at the moment of surgery. Six of them had haematological illnesses, 17 came to the hospital because of acute abdominal pain, 10 had been studied because of recurrent abdominal pain and 9 had casual diagnoses. Abdominal sonography was performed in all patients 24-48 hours before surgery.Four children were diagnosed of biliary duct lithiasis: two choledocolithiasis and two stones in the cystic duct. One of the cystic stones was extracted in the operating room and the rest resolved spontaneously. One patient presented dilatation of choledocal duct after surgery, without any stones' evidence. Also this patient resolved spontaneously. We had no complications.Biliary lithiasis is not frequent in children, even if it seems to be increasing. A few of these patients will suffer of choledocolithiasis. The intraoperatory exploration of the biliary tree during laparoscopic surgery is technically difficult due the small size of paediatric patients. Cholangiography is not always successful and can produce some important complications as pancreatitis. Preoperative sonography 24-48 hours before surgery is a safe and efficient method for the diagnosis and follow-up of paediatric patients with biliary lithiasis undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy. It is safe enough to be performed without intraoperatory cholangiography.