Gadoxetate disodium-enhanced MRI of mass-forming intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas: imaging-histologic correlation. The purpose of this study was to describe the enhancement patterns of mass-forming intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas on gadoxetate disodium-enhanced MR images using imaging-histologic correlation.We retrospectively evaluated the preoperative gadoxetate disodium-enhanced MR images of 19 patients with mass-forming intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas. Two readers independently interpreted enhancement patterns on arterial (globally high, rimlike), dynamic (washout, progressive), and hepatobiliary (target, nontarget) phase images. Dynamic enhancement was categorized as washout (hypoenhancement on later phase compared with arterial phase images) or progressive (persistent or gradually increased enhancement). Tumor enhancement ratio and tumor-to-liver signal difference curves were analyzed. The enhancement patterns were correlated with the extent of stromal fibrosis within the tumors.Rimlike arterial enhancement (89%, reader 1 84%, reader 2) and a progressive dynamic pattern (89%, both readers) were predominant. Tumor enhancement ratio increased gradually from the arterial to the equilibrium phase then decreased in the hepatobiliary phase, but the tumor signal intensities were lower than liver signal intensity in all phases. The two lesions that both readers considered to have globally high arterial enhancement and a washout dynamic pattern presented with minimal or scattered stromal fibrosis. Target appearance in the hepatobiliary phase (reader 1, 42%Mass-forming intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas may be characterized by rimlike enhancement and a progressive dynamic pattern on gadoxetate disodium-enhanced MR images, and these features seem related to the extent of stromal fibrosis in the tumor. Furthermore, mass-forming intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas may have a pseudowashout pattern on gadoxetate disodium-enhanced MR images because of progressive background liver enhancement. Therefore, radiologists need to be aware of this pattern as a possible pitfall.