Value of MR imaging in the diagnosis of intraductal papillary neoplasm of the bile duct. To analyze the value of MR imaging in diagnosis of intraductal papillary neoplasm of the bile duct (IPN-B).Fourteen patients with intraductal papillary neoplasms of the bile duct confirmed by surgical pathology were included in this study. The patients underwent MR routine plain scanning and enhancement scanning (including T1WI, T2WI with fat suppression, FALSH T1WI, and three-phase enhancement scanning), diffusion weighted imaging(DWI) and magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) before operation. The imaging data were reviewed and analyzed retrospectively in comparison with the surgical and pathological results.In these patients, 7 cases had tumors located in the left lobe, 2 cases had tumors in both the left and right lobes, 2 cases in the hepatic hilum, 2 cases in the common bile duct, and 1 case in both the right lobe and the common bile duct. Solitary or multiple intraductal masses could be found in 12 cases, with 11 cases appeared as papillary masses and one case as flat mass. In the other two cases the tumor was not visible (one case had too many stones, and in another case the tumor was too small). The tumors in the 12 cases showed hypointensity on T1WI and hyperintensity on T2WI. On the dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI, 11 cases showed mild and one showed moderate enhancement in arterial phase, and all the cases showed mildly and gradually delayed enhancement. On DWI, the lesion areas showed high signal intensity in all the cases, and the ADC value of the tumor area (1.697×10(-3)mm(2)/s) was significantly lower than that of the normal bile (3.973×10(-3)mm(2)/s) (t = -10.94, P < 0.05). Twelve cases demonstrated filling defects on primary MRCP coronary thin section images. On 3D-reconstruction MRCP images, 7 cases exhibited diffuse bile duct dilatation with the tumor areas more prominent, 3 cases exhibited aneurysmal bile dilatation, while the rest 4 cases exhibited segmental or lobar bile duct dilatation ( including 2 with invisible tumors ). In the 3 cases with aneurysmal bile dilatation, the multiple directions of MRCP images helped to find the communication between the aneurysmal dilatation and the bile duct. All the cases showed significant proximal bile duct dilatation (the extent of dilatation >100%), and 9 cases also showed distal bile duct dilatation. Bile duct stones were noted in 6 cases, 4 at the tumor area, and the other 2 away from the tumor area. No adjacent tissue invasion and no distal tissue or lymph node metastasis were observed.Intraductal papillary neoplasms of the bile ducts have characteristic imaging appearances on MRI, and MRI is an important method helpful to making correct diagnosis.