Differential diagnostic evaluation of chronic pancreatitis in relation to pancreatic cancer based on clinical, laboratory chemical and diagnostic parameters. Studies of 174 patients in 10 years. 174 patients with chronic pancreatic diseases, 30 patients with pancreatic carcinoma and 144 with chronic relapsing pancreatitis, 50 of them with calcifications, were observed in the Department of Internal Medicine of the University of Marburg/FRG between 1972 and 1982. In order to differentiate between carcinoma and relapsing pancreatitis the data of these patients were analysed retrospectively with regard to patient history, actual complaints, findings of laboratory, sonography, ERCP and X-ray investigations. The following results were obtained: Of discriminating value are steatorrhoe, local palpatory pain, alcohol ingestion, a history of earlier attacks and relapsing pain situations however, general abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and weight loss (if not exactly specified) are not. Within the laboratory findings bilirubin, GOT, alkaline phosphatase, gamma-GT, serum potassium, blood sugar and chymotrypsin content of the stool were significant while serum and urine amylase were similarly distributed within the groups of patients. Carcinoma and chronic relapsing pancreatitis can be identified by sonography in the majority of patients, but calcifications of the pancreas were rarely demonstrated during this observation period. The obstruction of the extrahepatic bile ducts--mostly due to a carcinoma of the pancreas head--was usually well documented by sonography. Intraabdominal air proofed to be the most disturbing factor. In carcinoma patients, the ERCP is important in demonstrating a complete obstruction of the pancreatic duct and stenosis and dilatation of the extrahepatic bile ducts. In patients with chronic relapsing pancreatitis the pancreatic duct alterations such as dilatations and partial stenosis are well documented by ERCP especially if calcifications occur. In patients without calcifications, dilatation of the branches of the main duct are less relevant in the diagnosis of pancreatic diseases. Radiological demonstration of calcification of the pancreatic area is important for the differential diagnosis. Longstanding characteristical complaints, symptoms and calcifications within the pancreatic area are the most relevant factors in discriminating carcinoma and chronic relapsing pancreatitis.