An organ-preserving selective arterial chemotherapy strategy for head and neck cancer. Squamous cancer of the upper aerodigestive tract is a disheartening disease. Despite our best efforts, the long-term survival rate remains only 15% to 40%, and surgical cures often decrease the quality of life owing to the loss of swallowing and speech organs. A better understanding of tumor dynamics and the discovery that thiosulfate can neutralize cisplatin led us to develop a treatment plan that combines a rapid superselective high-dose intraarterial delivery of cisplatin (CDDP), simultaneous intravenous infusion of its antagonist, thiosulfate, and radiation therapy.Patients with advanced head and neck squamous cancer were entered into the protocol after a multidisciplinary evaluation that included CT or MR imaging. Forty-two patients constituted the first cohort. After baseline angiography, an arterial acceptance test determined the maximum infusion rate that the tumor's nutrient artery would accept. CDDP was then infused at that rate, usually within 3 to 5 minutes, while the antagonist thiosulfate was given intravenously. In the second cohort of 85 patients with stage 3 or 4 previously untreated and unresectable disease, local radiation was added to the treatment plan. The radiation dose (180-200 cGy/d x 35) was delivered regionally on the basis of the known radiosensitizing effect of CDDP.Cohort 1 allowed us to develop the infusion technique and to establish a dose quantity and delivery frequency. When 150 mg/m2 was administered weekly for 4 weeks, no severe toxicity was found. In cohort 2, 72 (92%) of the remaining 78 patients had complete disappearance of their tumor. Seventeen severe toxic events were associated with 323 femoral catheterizations. One patient died of pulmonary embolus, precluding follow-up evaluation. Six patients had neurologic sequelae, three with transient and three with permanent strokes.Rapid superselective chemotherapy with CDDP combined with a circulatory systemic antagonist allowed delivery of an antitumoral drug directly into the lesion while protecting the kidneys and bone marrow from the agent's systemic effects. Use of a dose regimen of 150 mg CDDP/m2 per week for 4 weeks resulted in the disappearance of a large percentage of advanced squamous cancers.