Escherichia coli ehl1 gene-positive serotype O18ac:H31 associated with an outbreak of diarrhea in a neonatal nursery in Neuquén City, Argentina. Between 9 October and 12 November 1996, an outbreak of bloody diarrhea occurred in the neonatal nursery ward of the Policlínico Neuquén, in Neuquén, a city in the southwestern region of Argentina. Seven patients of the intermediate care unit were affected. Isolates of Escherichia coli O18ac:H31 that were non-lactose and -sorbitol fermenting were recovered from outbreak cases. Although the strains were negative for a number of virulence factors typically found in diarrheagenic groups of E. coli, all isolates from the present neonatal outbreak possessed the enterohemolysin gene, ehl1. All isolates showed resistance to the antibiotics ampicillin and chloramphenicol. These isolates showed a low adherence property in HeLa cells without any recognizable pattern. In order to evaluate the outbreak dissemination in the neonatology ward, a prevalence study was conducted on 13 November. Stool specimens were obtained from 16 neonates hospitalized in the sector and from 33 medical staff members. E. coli isolates with identical biochemical characteristics of the outbreak strain were recovered from 11 of 16 inpatients and from 4 of 33 staff members during the prevalence study. A total of 15 E. coli strains recovered both from the outbreak and the prevalence study were processed by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD)-PCR and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). By RAPD-PCR 14 of 15 strains showed patterns with 85 to 100% similarity, and by PFGE these strains were identical, each showing a unique pattern with 15 bands between 40 and 400 kb. One strain isolated from a nurse during the prevalence study presented a pattern not related to the others, and this was characterized as E. coli O81:HNM resistant to ampicillin only and negative for all the virulence factors studied. This outbreak occurred despite strict regulations in place to prevent cross-infection in the hospital. Postoutbreak prevalence studies were performed weekly thereafter without detecting new cases.