A controlled study of the relationship between Bordetella pertussis infections and sudden unexpected deaths among German infants. This was a prospective, controlled, multicenter study to investigate the relationship between Bordetella pertussis infections and sudden unexpected deaths among German infants.Between 1995 and 1997, all infants who died at 7 to 365 days of age and for whom autopsies were performed in 1 of 8 participating institutes of legal medicine were enrolled. During a standardized autopsy, nasopharyngeal specimens (NPSs) and tracheal specimens were obtained for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays to detect B pertussis. The oligonucleotide primers PTp1 and PTp2, which specifically amplify a 191-base pair DNA fragment of the pertussis toxin operon of B pertussis, were used. Two control subjects (matched according to residence, age, gender, and nationality) were enrolled for each case subject, via a network of pediatricians in private practice, and NPSs were obtained from those infants. Parents of case subjects and control subjects were asked to provide specific information on respiratory illnesses of the child, contact with a known case of pertussis, or close contact with a person with a cough illness during the 4 weeks before death or enrollment, as well as the child's pertussis immunization status. The pathologists performing the autopsies were unaware of the PCR results.Enrolled were 254 infants (66% male) with sudden unexpected deaths and 441 matched control subjects. Autopsies according to protocol were performed for 234 of the case subjects (92%) a diagnosis of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) was made for 76%. For the remaining subjects, causes of death were respiratory or other infections (14%), congenital anomalies or organ failures (4%), aspiration (2%), or accidents or traumatic events (4%). PCR results were positive for B pertussis for 12 case subjects (5.1%) (all with SIDS or respiratory infections) and 5.3% of control subjects. Of the 12 case subjects with positive PCR results, 10 (83%) were male. Questionnaires had been returned by the parents of 5 of the 12 infants. Three had experienced a respiratory illness (all with cough), beginning 7, 14, and 19 days before death. None had a known contact with a case of pertussis. Four of 15 control infants (27%) with positive PCR findings for B pertussis had a cough illness, indicating possible pertussis, and 2 of those 4 developed typical symptoms (whooping). Background information was received from 116 parents (46%) of case subjects and from parents of all control subjects. Upper respiratory tract infections within 4 weeks before death were reported for 53% of case subjects and 38% of control subjects. Also, fewer case subjects (33%) than control subjects (68%) had received age-adequate numbers of pertussis vaccine doses.The concept of infection as a factor in SIDS is supported by a number of observations, including the seasonal distribution of the occurrence of SIDS the high incidence of concurrent upper respiratory tract infections among infants dying as a result of SIDS