Detection of group B streptococcus in the cases died of neonatal pneumonia. From the 1970s, group B streptococci (GBS) have been widely recognized as an important pathogen in neonatal infectious disease, and it emerged as the leading cause of neonatal morbidity and mortality in the Western world. However, there are few data on the prevalence of neonatal GBS infections in China. The aim of this retrospective study was to estimate whether GBS is an important pathogen in severe neonatal pneumonia, and to develop a method for detection of GBS infections in fatal neonatal pneumonia.A total of 234 neonatal cases (0 - 28 days) died in Beijing Children's Hospital from 1953 to 2004 were enrolled in this study. They were divided into two groups. Two hundred cases diagnosed as neonatal pneumonia were assigned to study group and the remaining 34 cases died of neonatal hemolysis or surgical operation without any confirmed infectious diseases were designated as control group. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded lung tissues were used as source for total genomic DNA extraction. PCR and Southern blot analyses were applied to detect GBS specific cfb gene target sequence. And the clinical data of these cases were reviewed as well.In the study group, 52 cases were detected positive for GBS DNA by PCR (26%), 130 cases were positive by Southern blot (65%). In the control group, 1 case was detected positive GBS DNA by PCR (3%), and 6 cases were positive by Southern blot (18%). The positive rate was significantly lower in the control group than that in the study group (PCR, chi(2) = 8.82, P < 0.01 Southern blot, chi(2) = 26.77, P < 0.01). The positive rate in the neonates younger than 7 days (early-onset) was significantly higher than that in neonates older than 7 days (late-onset) (PCR: 37% vs. 13%, chi(2) = 15.537, P < 0.01Group B Streptococcus is an important pathogen in fatal neonatal pneumonia, especially in early-onset cases. southern blot may be a sensitive method to detect GBS infection in archival tissues. In the clinical work, more attention should be paid to the neonates with GBS risk factors. And GBS detection and prevention in neonates should be put into clinical practice.