Epidemiology of parechovirus infections of the central nervous system in a French pediatric unit. Human parechoviruses (HPeV), like their counterpart enteroviruses (EV), are associated with clinical manifestations ranging from asymptomatic disease to infections of the central nervous system. Newborn and young infants are particularly at risk for severe infection. In the last 5 years, the molecular diagnosis of HPeV infection in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and the identification of the associated HPeV type revealed the specific association between HPeV3 and meningitis or sepsis-like illness in neonates and infants. HPeV infection is not yet routinely diagnosed in clinical virology laboratories.To determine the clinical, biological, and epidemiological characteristics of HPeV infections of patients hospitalized at the Centre Hospitalier de Versailles, France.A total of 380 CSF samples originally referred to our laboratory for enterovirus testing between January 1st, 2007 and August 31st, 2011, were selected and retrospectively screened for the genome detection of HPeV. All HPeV detected were identified by amplification and sequencing of the complete 1D sequence encoding the VP1 protein.The HPeV genome was detected in CSF samples from nine (2.8%) patients. All were young infants under 18 months of age (median, 30 days age range, 8 days to 18 months). Fever was observed for all children and eight out of nine (89%) presented with irritability. No pleiocytosis and normal glucose and protein levels were observed. The mean duration of the hospital stay was 4 days (range, 2-7 days) and antibiotics were administered to five patients (55.6%). Yearly frequency of genome detection varied remarkably: 1.1% in 2007, 0% in 2008 and 2011, 2.9% in 2009 and 7.1% in 2010. All genotyped viruses were HPeV3.This study confirmed the importance of the HPeV genome detection in CSF samples from patients presenting with sepsis-like illness or suspected infection of the central nervous system, particularly in children under 2 years of age. The introduction of the molecular diagnosis of HPeV infection broadens the panel of diagnosis of neonatal sepsis and central nervous system symptoms in young children. Rapid identification of HPeV by PCR could also contribute to shorter duration of both antibiotic use and hospital stay.