Clinical features and molecular characteristics of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus in children. To study the clinical and molecular characteristics of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection in children.A total of 37 MRSA strains were isolated from hospitalized patients in Children's Hospital of Fudan University from March 2009 to November 2011. The clinical characteristics were investigated by a cohort study. Furthermore, the mecA, Panton-Valentine leucocidin (PVL) genes were detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and the genotypes of SCCmec were determined by multiplex PCR.(1) Among the 37 MRSA isolates, infections with 21 were acquired from hospital (HA-MRSA), and 16 isolates were acquired from community (CA-MRSA). (2) In the study, MRSA frequently caused respiratory tract infection, and most of the strains were isolated from intensive care unit (ICU). (3) CA-MRSA was most frequently associated with skin and soft tissue infections (SSTI), suppurative tonsillitis, even pneumonia and septicemia. HA-MRSA infection was more aggressive, most frequently associated with pneumonia, septicemia, and central nervous system (CNS) infections, such as meningitis. In children with fever caused by HA-MRSA or CA-MRSA infection, HA-MRSA showed a longer duration of fever, for 10.5 days. C-reactive protein (CRP) level caused by HA-MRSA (63.00 mg/L) was higher than CA-MRSA (9.50 mg/L) , and there were statistically significant differences between the groups (t = 2.5670, P < 0.05). However, there were no statistically significant differences between the groups in white blood cell count (WBC) or procalcitonin (PCT) level. (4) Among 37 MRSA isolates, the whole isolates were mecA gene positive (100%). SCCmec genotyping results showed that the most frequent SCCmec types were type III, 17 isolates, the others including type IV 8 isolates, type II1 isolates, nontypable 11 isolates, type I and type V were not found in this group. Therein, among 21 HA-MRSA isolates, SCCmec III was the most common, 15 isolates, type IV 1 isolates, nontypable 5 isolates among 16 CA-MRSA isolates, SCCmec type IV was the most common, 7 isolates, type III 2 isolates, type II 1 isolate, nontypable 6 isolates. (5) Among the 37 MRSA isolates, 28 were PVL gene positiveCompared with CA-MRSA, HA-MRSA infection was more aggressive, and induced higher C reactive protein the dominant epidemic strains of CA-MRSA was SCCmec type IV, and HA-MRSA was SCCmec type III