Risk of HIV and associated factors among infants born to HIV positive women in Amhara region, Ethiopia: a facility based retrospective study. The estimated HIV prevalence among pregnant women in Ethiopia is 1.2 percent and unfortunately one of every 3 children born to these women gets infected with HIV. Elimination of these mother-to-child transmissions (MTCT) of HIV is possible through HIV testing during pregnancy and taking antiretroviral medications. However, only 24 percent of the pregnant women living with HIV have yet received the medication needed to prevent the transmission of HIV. Hence, there exists a concern that the rate of HIV infection among infants born to HIV positive mothers is increasing. This study assessed the prevalence of HIV infection and associated factors among infants born to women living with HIV, in South Gondar zone, Amhara region, Ethiopia.Facility based document review was conducted upon 434 charts. The study participants were HIV exposed infants enrolled from January to December 2012. The data were reviewed from all the 17 health facilities which were providing PMTCT services in the zone. The study included 434 HIV exposed infants having an HIV Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test result. The data were collected using structured data extraction tool. Binary logistic regression analysis was employed to assess the putative association of independent variables with the outcome variable. Significance was taken at a P value<0.05 and 95% confidence level.The prevalence of HIV among HIV exposed infants was 10.1% (95% CI=7.3-13%). Delayed diagnosis (AOR=2.7, 95% CI=1.3, 29.4), mixed infant feeding (AOR=8.8, 95% CI=4.5, 22.8), failure to receive either antiretroviral therapy or prophylaxis during pregnancy or breast feeding (AOR=21.6, 95% CI=14.5, 39.8) and shorter duration of HIV treatment (AOR=12, 95% CI=(4.2, 45.0) were the factors that increase the risk of mother- to- child transmission of HIV.The prevalence of HIV infection among HIV exposed infants is strikingly high. Inadequate use of antiretroviral therapy and skilled delivery care were the factors that enhance mother-to-child transmission of HIV. Integrated and audience specific education and promotion for seeking obstetric care and HIV services is instrumental to curb the devastating consequences of HIV on pregnant women and their newborns.