Genomic fingerprinting for epidemiological differentiation of Staphylococcus aureus clinical isolates. We used genomic fingerprinting to investigate an outbreak of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus in the neonatal intensive care units (NICUs) of two hospitals. The hospitals are located in the same city and are part of the same medical care system. Fingerprinting was done by Southern blot hybridization with DNA probes for the genes encoding the S. aureus collagen adhesin (cna), fibronectin-binding proteins (fnbA and fnbB), and beta-toxin (hlb). Genomic DNA was digested with HaeIII (cna and fnbA-fnbB probes) or HindIII (hlb probe). Hybridization patterns could be distinguished on the basis of (i) the presence or absence of cna, (ii) the size of the restriction fragment containing the cna gene, (iii) restriction fragment length polymorphisms within fnbA and fnbB, (iv) the presence of a lysogenic phage within hlb, and (v) the sizes of the restriction fragments containing the phage-bacterial DNA junction fragments. Over a period of 4 months we examined a total of 46 isolates obtained from various wards within each hospital. Among these 46 isolates, we observed a total of 4 cna patterns, 11 fnbA-fnbB patterns, and 11 hlb patterns. Southern blots with HaeIII-digested genomic DNA and a combination of all three gene probes revealed a total of 16 clearly distinguishable patterns. A total of 22 of the 46 isolates were identical with respect to every genomic marker examined. A total of 21 of these 22 isolates were obtained from patients within an NICU. Nineteen of 21 isolates also exhibited identical antibiotic resistance profiles (antibiogram). Although 5 of the remaining 24 strains exhibited an antibiogram identical to those of the NICU isolates, all 24 strains could be distinguished from the NICU isolates by at least one genomic marker. These results suggest that the NICU isolates had a common origin and that genomic fingerprinting with the cna, fnbA, fnbB, and hlb gene probes can provide an important epidemiological tool for the identification of clinical isolates of S. aureus.