Distinct genotypic distributions of cytomegalovirus (CMV) envelope glycoprotein in bone marrow and renal transplant recipients with CMV disease. A prospective study of the spectrum of glycoprotein B (gB) and glycoprotein H (gH) genotypes of cytomegalovirus (CMV) was conducted with five categories of patients: viremic bone marrow-transplant (BMT) recipients who developed CMV disease after BMT (n = 22), viremic BMT recipients without CMV disease (n = 11), viremic renal-transplant recipients who developed CMV disease after transplantation (n = 14), viremic renal-transplant recipients without CMV disease (n = 13), and premature babies with asymptomatic congenital CMV infections (n = 13). Genotypic stability was observed because the gB and gH genotypes of multiple isolates obtained from a single patient were identical. The distribution of gH genotypes in patients of all groups studied were similar. However, there was a unique distribution of the gB genotype in the first category of patients, i.e., BMT recipients with CMV disease, which was distinct from those of all other categories (P < 0.05). CMV isolates from 54% of BMT recipients with CMV disease exhibited gB type 2, while isolates from 46, 50, 69, and 77% of the BMT recipients without CMV disease, renal-transplant recipients with and those without CMV disease, and premature babies with congenital CMV infection, respectively, were of gB type 1. An analysis of the clinical characteristics of BMT recipients with CMV disease indicated that all underwent either an allogeneic or matched, unrelated donor transplant, and half had severe acute graft-versus-host disease (grades 2 to 4). The statistically significant genotypic difference between CMV isolates from BMT recipients with and without CMV disease was not observed between isolates from renal-transplant recipients with and without CMV disease. We speculate that differences in pathogenesis in different patient groups might account for these observations. These findings would also facilitate decision making about the choice of recombinant CMV glycoprotein vaccine required to immunize transplant donors and the subsequent adoptive transfer of immunity to BMT recipients. When the source of CMV DNA required for genotyping was investigated among renal-transplant recipients, direct use of peripheral blood leukocytes was 95% effective compared to the effectiveness of cells obtained from conventional culture of peripheral blood specimens.