<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-04-03</DATELINE><TITLE>C19ORF66 Broadly Escapes Virus-Induced Endonuclease Cleavage and Restricts Kaposi’s Sarcoma-Associated Herpesvirus</TITLE><BODY>One striking characteristic of certain herpesviruses is their ability to induce rapid and widespread RNA decay in order to gain access to host resources. This phenotype is induced by viral endoribonucleases, including SOX in Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), muSOX in murine gammaherpesvirus 68 (MHV68), BGLF5 in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), and vhs in herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1). Here, we performed comparative transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) upon expression of these herpesviral endonucleases in order to characterize their effect on the host transcriptome. Consistent with previous reports, we found that approximately two-thirds of transcripts were downregulated in cells expressing any of these viral endonucleases. Among the transcripts spared from degradation, we uncovered a cluster of transcripts that systematically escaped degradation from all tested endonucleases. Among these escapees, we identified C19ORF66 and reveal that this transcript is protected from degradation by its 3′ untranslated region (UTR). We then show that C19ORF66 is a potent KSHV restriction factor by impeding early viral gene expression, suggesting that its ability to escape viral cleavage may be an important component of the host response to viral infection. Collectively, our comparative approach is a powerful tool to pinpoint key regulators of the viral-host interplay and led us to uncover a novel KSHV regulator. IMPORTANCE Viruses are master regulators of the host gene expression machinery. This is crucial to promote viral infection and to dampen host immune responses. Many viruses, including herpesviruses, express RNases that reduce host gene expression through widespread mRNA decay. However, it emerged that some mRNAs escape this fate, although it has been difficult to determine whether these escaping transcripts benefit viral infection or instead participate in an antiviral mechanism. To tackle this question, we compared the effect of the herpesviral RNases on the human transcriptome and identified a cluster of transcripts consistently escaping degradation from all tested endonucleases. Among the protected mRNAs, we identified the transcript C19ORF66 and showed that it restricts Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) infection. Collectively, these results provide a framework to explore how the control of RNA fate in the context of viral-induced widespread mRNA degradation may influence the outcome of viral infection.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>