<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-04-04</DATELINE><TITLE>Porcine Deltacoronavirus Engages the Transmissible Gastroenteritis Virus Functional Receptor Porcine Aminopeptidase N for Infectious Cellular Entry</TITLE><BODY>Identification of cellular receptors used by coronavirus (CoV) entry into the host cells is critical to an understanding of pathogenesis and to development of intervention strategies. The fourth CoV genus, Deltacoronavirus, evolutionarily related to the Gammacoronavirus, has just been defined recently. In the current study, we demonstrate that porcine aminopeptidase N (pAPN) acts as a cross-genus CoV functional receptor for both enteropathogenic porcine deltacoronovirus (PDCoV) and alphacoronovirus (AlphaCoV) (transmissible gastroenteritis virus [TGEV]) based upon three lines of evidence. First, the soluble S1 protein of PDCoV bound to the surface of target porcine cell lines known to express pAPN as efficiently as TGEV-S1, which could be blocked by soluble pAPN pretreatment. Second, both PDCoV-S1 and TGEV-S1 physically recognized and interacted with pAPN by coimmunoprecipitation in pAPN cDNA-transfected cells and by dot blot hybridization assay. Finally, exogenous expression of pAPN in refractory cells conferred susceptibility to PDCoV-S1 binding and to PDCoV entry and productive infection. PDCoV-S1 appeared to have a lower pAPN-binding affinity and likely consequent lower infection efficiency in pAPN-expressing refractory cells than TGEV-S1, suggesting that there may be differences between these two viruses in the virus-binding regions in pAPN. This study paves the way for dissecting the molecular mechanisms of PDCoV-host interactions and pathogenesis as well as facilitates future vaccine development and intervention strategies against PDCoV infection. IMPORTANCE The emergence of new human and animal coronaviruses is believed to have occurred through interspecies transmission that is mainly mediated by a species-specific receptor of the host. Among the four genera of the Coronavirinae, a couple of functional receptors for the representative members in the genera Alphacoronavirus and Betacoronavirus have been identified, whereas receptors for Gammacoronavirus and Deltacoronavirus, which are believed to originate from birds, are still unknown. Porcine coronaviruses, including the newly discovered porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) associated with diarrhea in newborn piglets, have posed a serious threat to the pork industry in Asia and North America. Here, we report that PDCoV employs the alphacoronavirus TGEV functional receptor porcine aminopeptidase N (pAPN) for cellular entry, demonstrating the usage of pAPN as a cross-genus CoV functional receptor. The identification of the PDCoV receptor provides another example of the expanded host range of CoV and paves the way for further investigation of PDCoV-host interaction and pathogenesis.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>