<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2017-10-25</DATELINE><TITLE>The Postfusion Structure of the Heartland Virus Gc Glycoprotein Supports Taxonomic Separation of the Bunyaviral Families Phenuiviridae and Hantaviridae</TITLE><BODY>Heartland virus (HRTV) is an emerging human pathogen that belongs to the newly defined family Phenuiviridae, order Bunyavirales. Gn and Gc are two viral surface glycoproteins encoded by the M segment and are required for early events during infection. HRTV delivers its genome into the cytoplasm by fusion of the viral envelope and endosomal membranes under low-pH conditions. Here, we describe the crystal structure of HRTV Gc in its postfusion conformation. The structure shows that Gc displays a typical class II fusion protein conformation, and the overall structure is identical to severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome virus (SFTSV) Gc, which also belongs to the Phenuiviridae family. However, our structural analysis indicates that the hantavirus Gc presents distinct features in the aspects of subdomain orientation, N-linked glycosylation, the interaction pattern between protomers, and the fusion loop conformation. This suggests their family-specific subunit arrangement during the fusogenic process and supports the recent taxonomic revision of bunyaviruses. Our results provide insights into the comprehensive comparison of class II membrane fusion proteins in two bunyavirus families, yielding valuable information for treatments against these human pathogens. IMPORTANCE HRTV is an insect-borne virus found in America that can infect humans. It belongs to the newly defined family Phenuiviridae, order Bunyavirales. HRTV contains three single-stranded RNA segments (L, M, and S). The M segment of the virus encodes a polyprotein precursor that is cleaved into two glycoproteins, Gn and Gc. Gc is a fusion protein facilitating virus entry into host cells. Here, we report the crystal structure of the HRTV Gc protein. The structure displays a typical class II fusion protein conformation. Comparison of HRTV Gc with a recently solved structure of another bunyavirus Gc revealed that these Gc structures display a newly defined family specificity, supporting the recent International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses reclassification of the bunyaviruses. Our results expand the knowledge of bunyavirus fusion proteins and help us to understand bunyavirus characterizations. This study provides useful information to improve protection against and therapies for bunyavirus infections.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>