<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2017-06-28</DATELINE><TITLE>Entry and Release of Hepatitis C Virus in Polarized Human Hepatocytes</TITLE><BODY>Hepatitis C virus (HCV) primarily infects hepatocytes, which are highly polarized cells. The relevance of cell polarity in the HCV life cycle has been addressed only in distantly related models and remains poorly understood. Although polarized epithelial cells have a rather simple morphology with a basolateral and an apical domain, hepatocytes exhibit complex polarization structures. However, it has been reported that some selected polarized HepG2 cell clones can exhibit a honeycomb pattern of distribution of the tight-junction proteins typical of columnar polarized epithelia, which can be used as a simple model to study the role of cell polarization in viral infection of hepatocytes. To obtain similar clones, HepG2 cells expressing CD81 (HepG2-CD81) were used, and clones were isolated by limiting dilutions. Two clones exhibiting a simple columnar polarization capacity when grown on a semipermeable support were isolated and characterized. To test the polarity of HCV entry and release, our polarized HepG2-CD81 clones were infected with cell culture-derived HCV. Our data indicate that HCV binds equally to both sides of the cells, but productive infection occurs mainly when the virus is added at the basolateral domain. Furthermore, we also observed that HCV virions are released from the basolateral domain of the cells. Finally, when polarized cells were treated with oleic acid and U0126, a MEK inhibitor, to promote lipoprotein secretion, a higher proportion of infectious viral particles of lower density were secreted. This cell culture system provides an excellent model to investigate the influence of cell polarization on the HCV life cycle. IMPORTANCE Hepatitis C is a major health burden, with approximately 170 million persons infected worldwide. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) primarily infects hepatocytes, which are highly polarized cells with a complex organization. The relevance of cell polarity in the HCV life cycle has been addressed in distantly related models and remains unclear. Hepatocyte organization is complex, with multiple apical and basolateral surfaces. A simple culture model of HepG2 cells expressing CD81 that are able to polarize with unique apical and basolateral domains was developed to study HCV infection. With this model, we demonstrated that HCV enters and exits hepatocytes by the basolateral domain. Furthermore, lower-density viral particles were produced under conditions that promote lipoprotein secretion. This cell culture system provides a useful model to study the influence of cell polarization on HCV infection.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>