<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2016-09-07</DATELINE><TITLE>Characterization of Vesicular Stomatitis Virus Pseudotypes Bearing Essential Entry Glycoproteins gB, gD, gH, and gL of Herpes Simplex Virus 1</TITLE><BODY>Herpes simplex viruses (HSVs) are unusual in that unlike most enveloped viruses, they require at least four entry glycoproteins, gB, gD, gH, and gL, for entry into target cells in addition to a cellular receptor for gD. The dissection of the herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) entry mechanism is complicated by the presence of more than a dozen proteins on the viral envelope. To investigate HSV-1 entry requirements in a simplified system, we generated vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) virions pseudotyped with HSV-1 essential entry glycoproteins gB, gD, gH, and gL but lacking the native VSV fusogen G. These virions, referred to here as VSVΔG-BHLD virions, infected a cell line expressing a gD receptor, demonstrating for the first time that the four essential entry glycoproteins of HSV-1 are not only required but also sufficient for cell entry. To our knowledge, this is the first time the VSV pseudotyping system has been successfully extended beyond two proteins. Entry of pseudotyped virions required a gD receptor and was inhibited by HSV-1 specific anti-gB or anti-gH/gL neutralizing antibodies, which suggests that membrane fusion during the entry of the pseudotyped virions shares common requirements with the membrane fusion involved in HSV-1 entry and HSV-1-mediated syncytium formation. The HSV pseudotyping system established in this study presents a novel tool for systematic exploration of the HSV entry and membrane fusion mechanisms. IMPORTANCE Herpes simplex viruses (HSVs) are human pathogens that can cause cold sores, genital herpes, and blindness. No vaccines or preventatives are available. HSV entry into cells—a prerequisite for a successful infection—is a complex process that involves multiple viral and host proteins and occurs by different routes. Detailed mechanistic knowledge of the HSV entry is important for understanding its pathogenesis and would benefit antiviral and vaccine development, yet the presence of more than a dozen proteins on the viral envelope complicates the dissection of the HSV entry mechanisms. In this study, we generated heterologous virions displaying the four essential entry proteins of HSV-1 and showed that they are capable of cell entry and, like HSV-1, require all four entry glycoproteins along with a gD receptor. This HSV pseudotyping system pioneered in this work opens doors for future systematic exploration of the herpesvirus entry mechanisms.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>