<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2001-12-15</DATELINE><TITLE>Molecular Determinants of Virulence, Cell Tropism, and Pathogenic Phenotype of Infectious Bursal Disease Virus</TITLE><BODY>Infectious bursal disease viruses (IBDVs), belonging to the family Birnaviridae, exhibit a wide range of immunosuppressive potential, pathogenicity, and virulence for chickens. The genomic segment A encodes all the structural (VP2, VP4, and VP3) and nonstructural proteins, whereas segment B encodes the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (VP1). To identify the molecular determinants for the virulence, pathogenic phenotype, and cell tropism of IBDV, we prepared full-length cDNA clones of a virulent strain, Irwin Moulthrop (IM), and constructed several chimeric cDNA clones of segments A and B between the attenuated vaccine strain (D78) and the virulent IM or GLS variant strain. Using the cRNA-based reverse-genetics system developed for IBDV, we generated five chimeric viruses after transfection by electroporation procedures in Vero or chicken embryo fibroblast (CEF) cells, one of which was recovered after propagation in embryonated eggs. To evaluate the characteristics of the recovered viruses in vivo, we inoculated 3-week-old chickens with D78, IM, GLS, or chimeric viruses and analyzed their bursae for pathological lesions 3 days postinfection. Viruses in which VP4, VP4-VP3, and VP1 coding sequences of the virulent strain IM were substituted for the corresponding region in the vaccine strain failed to induce hemorrhagic lesions in the bursa. In contrast, viruses in which the VP2 coding region of the vaccine strain was replaced with the variant GLS or virulent IM strain caused rapid bursal atrophy or hemorrhagic lesions in the bursa, as seen with the variant or classical virulent strain, respectively. These results show that the virulence and pathogenic-phenotype markers of IBDV reside in VP2. Moreover, one of the chimeric viruses containing VP2 sequences of the virulent strain could not be recovered in Vero or CEF cells but was recovered in embryonated eggs, suggesting that VP2 contains the determinants for cell tropism. Similarly, one of the chimeric viruses containing the VP1 segment of the virulent strain could not be recovered in Vero cells but was recovered in CEF cells, suggesting that VP1 contains the determinants for cell-specific replication in Vero cells. By comparing the deduced amino acid sequences of the D78 and IM strains and their reactivities with monoclonal antibody 21, which binds specifically to virulent IBDV, the putative amino acids involved in virulence and cell tropism were identified. Our results indicate that residues Gln at position 253 (Gln253), Asp279, and Ala284 of VP2 are involved in the virulence, cell tropism, and pathogenic phenotype of virulent IBDV.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>