<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-03-14</DATELINE><TITLE>Exacerbated Apoptosis of Cells Infected with Infectious Bursal Disease Virus upon Exposure to Interferon Alpha</TITLE><BODY>Infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) belongs to the Birnaviridae family and is the etiological agent of a highly contagious and immunosuppressive disease (IBD) that affects domestic chickens (Gallus gallus). IBD or Gumboro disease leads to high rates of morbidity and mortality of infected animals and is responsible for major economic losses to the poultry industry worldwide. IBD is characterized by a massive loss of IgM-bearing B lymphocytes and the destruction of the bursa of Fabricius. The molecular bases of IBDV pathogenicity are still poorly understood; nonetheless, an exacerbated cytokine immune response and B cell depletion due to apoptosis are considered main factors that contribute to the severity of the disease. Here we have studied the role of type I interferon (IFN) in IBDV infection. While IFN pretreatment confers protection against subsequent IBDV infection, the addition of IFN to infected cell cultures early after infection drives massive apoptotic cell death. Downregulation of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-dependent protein kinase (PKR), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), or nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) expression drastically reduces the extent of apoptosis, indicating that they are critical proteins in the apoptotic response induced by IBDV upon treatment with IFN-α. Our results indicate that IBDV genomic dsRNA is a major viral factor that contributes to the triggering of apoptosis. These findings provide novel insights into the potential mechanisms of IBDV-induced immunosuppression and pathogenesis in chickens. IMPORTANCE IBDV infection represents an important threat to the poultry industry worldwide. IBDV-infected chickens develop severe immunosuppression, which renders them highly susceptible to secondary infections and unresponsive to vaccination against other pathogens. The early dysregulation of the innate immune response led by IBDV infection and the exacerbated apoptosis of B cells have been proposed as the main factors that contribute to virus-induced immunopathogenesis. Our work contributes for the first time to elucidating a potential mechanism driving the apoptotic death of IBDV-infected cells upon exposure to type I IFN. We provide solid evidence about the critical importance of PKR, TNF-α, and NF-κB in this phenomenon. The described mechanism could facilitate the early clearance of infected cells, thereby aiding in the amelioration of IBDV-induced pathogenesis, but it could also contribute to B cell depletion and immunosuppression. The balance between these two opposing effects might be dramatically affected by the genetic backgrounds of both the host and the infecting virus strain.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>