Structure-analysis method for electronic cleansing in cathartic and noncathartic CT colonography. Electronic cleansing (EC) is an emerging method for segmentation of fecal material in CT colonography (CTC) that is used for reducing or eliminating the requirement for cathartic bowel preparation and hence for improving patients' adherence to recommendations for colon cancer screening. In EC, feces tagged by an x-ray-opaque oral contrast agent are removed from the CTC images, effectively cleansing the colon after image acquisition. Existing EC approaches tend to suffer from the following cleansing artifacts: degradation of soft-tissue structures because of pseudo-enhancement caused by the surrounding tagged fecal materials, and pseudo soft-tissue structures and false fistulas caused by partial volume effects at the boundary between the air lumen and the tagged regions, called the air-tagging boundary (AT boundary). In this study, we developed a novel EC method, called structure-analysis cleansing, which effectively avoids these cleansing artifacts. In our method, submerged soft-tissue structures are recognized by their local morphologic signatures that are characterized based on the eigenvalues of a three-dimensional Hessian matrix. A structure-enhancement function is formulated for enhancing of the soft-tissue structures. In addition, thin folds sandwiched between the air lumen and tagged regions are enhanced by analysis of the local roughness based on multi-scale volumetric curvedness. Both values of the structure-enhancement function and the local roughness are integrated into the speed function of a level set method for delineating the tagged fecal materials. Thus, submerged soft-tissue structures as well as soft-tissue structures adhering to the tagged regions are preserved, whereas the tagged regions are removed along with the associated AT boundaries from CTC images. Evaluation of the quality of the cleansing based on polyps and folds in a colon phantom, as well as on polyps in clinical cathartic and noncathartic CTC cases with fluid and stool tagging, showed that our structure-analysis cleansing method is significantly superior to that of our previous thresholding-based EC method. It provides a cleansed colon with substantially reduced subtraction artifacts.