Transvaginal mesh repair of anterior and posterior vaginal wall prolapse: a clinical and ultrasonographic study. To investigate whether ultrasonography coupled with clinical examination can help in understanding the mechanism of recurrence after transvaginal mesh repair of anterior and posterior vaginal wall prolapse.Ninety-one patients who had undergone surgery for anterior and/or posterior vaginal wall prolapse with the Prolift system had a clinical examination and introital/endovaginal two-dimensional ultrasonography a minimum of 1 year later. The retraction of anterior and posterior meshes was estimated relative to the original length of the mesh by transvaginal palpation. Patients with no, moderate (< 50%) or severe (> or = 50%) mesh retraction were compared. Anterior recurrence of prolapse was defined according to the International Continence Society by a Ba value > or = -1 and posterior recurrence by a Bp value > or = -1 (where Ba represents the most distal position of the anterior vaginal wall and Bp the most distal position of the posterior vaginal wall). On ultrasonography, two distances were measured in the midsagittal plane: Distance 1, from the distal margin of the anterior mesh to the bladder neck, and Distance 2, from the distal margin of the posterior mesh to the rectoanal junction.Seventy-five anterior and 62 posterior meshes were studied at a mean follow-up of 17.9 months. Patients with anterior recurrence presented significantly more often with severe anterior mesh retraction compared with patients without anterior recurrence (5/8 vs. 2/67, P < 0.001) and also had an increased Distance 1 (P < 0.001). Patients with posterior recurrence presented significantly more often with severe posterior mesh retraction compared with patients without posterior recurrence (3/4 vs. 3/58, P < 0.01) and also had an increased Distance 2 (P < 0.01).Recurrence of prolapse after transvaginal mesh repair appears to be associated with severe mesh retraction and loss of mesh support on the distal part of the vaginal walls.