The relationship between placental lesions and early hemorrhagic-ischemic cerebral injury in very low birth weight infants. The histopathological features of the placenta are central for screening a lot of pregnancy related disorders associated to hemorrhagic-ischemic cerebral injury in preterm infants that can jeopardize his long term neurodevelopment. The objective of this study was to examine the relationship between placental lesions and early hemorrhagic-ischemic cerebral injury in very low birth weight infants (VLBW).This is a case-control study of VLBW born at Sardá Maternity Hospital, Buenos Aires, between 2006 and 2012. Inclusion criteria's were gestational age ≥ 24 and ≤ 32 weeks and birth weight between 500 g and 1500 g, Exclusion criteria's were multiple pregnancy, congenital anomalies, intrauterine infections and mortality before 24 hours of life.198 VLBW were included, 49 cases and 149 controls. There was no significant difference in the incidence of histopathological lesions between the groups, although inflammatory placental lesions predominated in cases (67,3%) compared with controls (48%, p= 0.018). Intraventricular hemorrhage was the most common injury. On bivariate analysis inflammation was the only placenta lesion associated with early hemorrhagic-ischemic cerebral injury (OR 7.0, 95% CI 1.54 - 31.71) whereas the risk of severe hemorrhagic-ischemic cerebral injury was twofold greater in the presence of inflammation (p= 0.20). After adjusting for perinatal variables, placental lesions were not independently associated with increased risk of hemorrhagic-ischemic cerebral injury. There was a trend towards lesser risk of hemorrhagic-ischemic cerebral injury with increasing gestational age.Placental injuries were not independently associated with hemorrhagic-ischemic cerebral injury within 72 hours of life, although inflammation showed a clear predominance un cases.Introducción: El examen histopatológico de la placenta es trascendente para evidenciar desordenes relacionados con el embarazo que se asocian a lesiones isquémico hemorrágicas cerebrales (LIHC) en recién nacidos prematuros (RNPT). Objetivo: Estudiar la asociación entre lesiones placentarias y LIHC precoces detectadas con ecografía en RNPT ≤ 1500 g y 32 semanas. Material y Métodos: diseño caso – control. Criterios de inclusión: RNPT ≥ 24 y ≤ 32 semanas, ≥ 500 y ≤ 1500 g, nacidos en la Maternidad Sardá entre años 2006 y 2012. Criterios de exclusión: RNPT gemelares, con malformaciones o infecciones intrauterinas específicas y los fallecidos antes de las 24 horas de vida. Resultados: fueron incluidos 198 RNPT, 49 con LIHC (casos) y 149 sin LIHC (controles). No se encontraron diferencias en las lesiones histopatológicas placentarias entre los dos grupos, aunque se apreció una clara tendencia de lesiones inflamatorias en los casos (67.3%) en comparación con los controles (48 %, p = 0.018). La ruptura prematura de las membranas (p = 0.027) y la corioamnionitis clínica fueron más frecuentes en los casos. Complicaciones fuertemente asociadas a prematurez fueron estadísticamente más evidentes entre los casos. La hemorragia intraventricular fue la lesión cerebral más hallada. El 50% de los casos persistieron con LIHC a las 36-40 semanas, mientras que a mayor edad gestacional el riesgo de LIHC fue menor . Conclusiones: las lesiones histopatológicas placentarias no estuvieron asociadas independientemente a mayor riesgo de LIHC, aunque se observó un predominio de lesiones inflamatorias en los casos.