Gallium uptake in complicated pancreatitis: a predictor of infection. A retrospective evaluation was performed of the use of gallium imaging in patients with known severe pancreatitis to detect infection in pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections.Gallium-67 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies were retrospectively reviewed in patients with complicated pancreatitis. Only patients who had undergone interventional procedures within 10 days of the scanning were included in our analysis. A total of 23 scans from 20 patients were reviewed. SPECT imaging was typically performed 48-72 hr after injection of the gallium. All studies were correlated with conventional CT findings. Findings from subsequent interventions (results of aspiration, Gram stains, or cultures) were used as evidence of infection.Twenty patients underwent either percutaneous or surgical drainage within 10 days of their gallium scanning. One patient underwent gallium scanning on three different occasions and underwent three different interventional procedures after each of the gallium scans, bringing the total number of cases in our study to 23. Of these 23 cases, 18 patients (78%) with gallium scans showing positive findings for infection had infected fluid five patients (22%) with negative findings for infection on gallium scans had sterile fluid (p < 0.00001). No false-positive scans were found among our study cases, and we found no correlation between the uptake of gallium and the presence or absence of pancreatic necrosis.Gallium does not actively accumulate in all patients with severe pancreatitis, and gallium uptake does not correlate with the presence or absence of necrosis. In patients with severe pancreatitis complicated by fluid collections or inflammatory masses, gallium SPECT is a useful predictor of infection and can be used to help guide subsequent intervention. Gallium SPECT allows targeting sites of infected fluid in patients with multiple fluid collections and potentially obviates intervention in patients with sterile fluid collections.