Subthalamic nucleus stimulation modulates motor cortex oscillatory activity in Parkinson's disease. In Parkinson's disease, impaired motor preparation has been related to an increased latency in the appearance of movement-related desynchronization (MRD) throughout the contralateral primary sensorimotor (PSM) cortex. Internal globus pallidus (GPi) stimulation improved movement desynchronization over the PSM cortex during movement execution but failed to improve impaired motor preparation. PET studies indicate that subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation partly reverses the abnormal premotor pattern of brain activation during movement. By monitoring MRD, we aimed to assess changes in premotor and PSM cortex oscillatory activity induced by bilateral STN stimulation and to compare these changes with those induced by l-dopa. Ten Parkinson's disease patients and a group of healthy, age-matched controls performed self-paced wrist flexions in each of four conditions: without either stimulation or l-dopa (the 'off' condition), with stimulation and without l-dopa (On Stim), with l-dopa and without stimulation ('on drug'), and with both stimulation and l-dopa (On Both). Compared with the Off condition, in both the On Stim and the On Drug condition the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) III score decreased by about 60% and in the On Both condition it decreased by 80%. The desynchronization latency over central regions contralateral to movement and the movement desynchronization over bilateral central regions were significantly increased by stimulation and by l-dopa, with a maximal effect when the two were associated. Furthermore, desynchronization latency significantly decreased over bilateral frontocentral regions in the three treatment conditions compared with the Off condition. In Parkinson's disease, STN stimulation may induce a change in abnormal cortical oscillatory activity patterns (similar to that produced by l-dopa) by decreasing the abnormal spreading of desynchronization over frontocentral regions and increasing PSM cortex activity during movement preparation and execution, with a correlated improvement in bradykinesia. Parkinsonians under treatment displayed a desynchronization pattern close to that seen in healthy, age-matched controls, although central latencies remained shorter. The study indicates that it is possible to influence cortical reactivity related to the planning and execution of voluntary movement through the basal ganglia, and furthermore that the oscillatory activity of the PSM cortex (in addition to that of premotor areas) could be of major importance in the control of movement-associated, neural activity in Parkinson's disease.