Chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, etoposide, vincristine and prednisone (CHOEP) is not effective in patients with enteropathy-type intestinal T-cell lymphoma. Enteropathy-type intestinal T-cell lymphoma (ETCL) is a highly aggressive disease with poor response to conventional CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone) chemotherapy. According to promising data with the addition of etoposide (E) to the CHOP regimen (CHOEP) in aggressive lymphomas including T-cell lymphomas, we have treated patients with ETCL with CHOEP chemotherapy.Ten consecutive patients (six female, four male) suffering from ETCL were given CHOEP at our institution. Four patients had advanced disease (stage III/IV), while five patients were rated to be in stage II and one in stage I. Treatment consisted of doxorubicin 50 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 750 mg/m2 and vincristine 1.4 mg/m2 by intravenous infusion on day 1, etoposide 100 mg/m2 intravenously days 1-3 and oral prednisone days 1-5. Cycles were repeated every 3 weeks for a maximum of six courses. Assessment of response was done by means of conventional computed tomography scanning, endoscopy and also [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) in seven patients.A total of 41 cycles (median six, range one to six) were administered to our patients. Leukocytopenia/neutropenia WHO grade IV necessitating granulocyte colony-stimulating factor support occurred in all patients evaluable for toxicity, and febrile neutropenia was seen in two patients. Two patients had to undergo emergency surgery due to intestinal perforation after one and three courses of treatment, respectively. Therapeutic results, however, were disappointing: two patients had complete remission (CR), three had partial remissions and five patients progressed during treatment. Remissions, however, where only short-lasting, as only two patients are alive at a median follow-up of 7 months (range 2-16). One patient is in ongoing CR 10 months after initiation of chemotherapy and the other is currently undergoing second-line treatment for progressive disease as judged by follow-up investigations after three cycles of CHOEP.Our data demonstrate that CHOEP chemotherapy results in a high rate of hematotoxicity in patients with ETCL. In spite of this, therapeutic results were disappointing and do not appear to be superior to conventional CHOP chemotherapy. We conclude that CHOEP cannot be recommended for routine use in patients with ETCL.