Influence of escitalopram treatment on 5-HT 1A receptor binding in limbic regions in patients with anxiety disorders. There is an increasing interest in the underlying mechanisms of the antidepressant and anxiolytic treatment effect associated with changes in serotonergic neurotransmission after treatment with selective serotonin (5-HT) reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) in humans. The 5-HT(1A) receptor is known to play a crucial role in the pathophysiology of affective disorders, and altered 5-HT(1A) receptor binding has been found in anxiety patients. SSRI treatment raises the 5-HT level in the synaptic cleft and might change postsynaptic receptor densities. Therefore, our study in patients suffering from anxiety disorders investigated the effects of long-term treatment with escitalopram on the 5-HT(1A) receptor. A longitudinal positrone emission tomography (PET) study in 12 patients suffering from anxiety disorders was conducted. Two dynamic PET scans were performed applying the selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist [carbonyl-(11)C]WAY-100635. Eight regions of interest were defined a priori (orbitofrontal cortex, amygdala, hippocampus, subgenual cortex, anterior and posterior cingulate cortex, dorsal raphe nucleus and cerebellum as reference). After the baseline PET scan, patients were administered escitalopram (average dose of 11.2+/-6.0 mg day(-1)) for a minimum of 12 weeks. A second PET scan was conducted after 109+/-27 days. 5-HT(1A) receptor binding potentials in 12 patients were assessed by PET applying the Simplified Reference Tissue Model.There was a significant reduction in the 5-HT(1A) receptor binding potential after a minimum of 12 weeks of escitalopram treatment in the hippocampus (P=0.006), subgenual cortex (P=0.017) and posterior cingulate cortex (P=0.034). The significance of the hippocampus region survived the Bonferroni-adjusted threshold for multiple comparisons. These PET data in humans in vivo demonstrate a reduction of the 5-HT(1A) binding potential after SSRI treatment.