Additional value of FDG-PET/CT in management of "solitary" liver metastases: preliminary results of a prospective multicenter study. The most common malignancy affecting the liver is metastasis from a wide variety of tumors, particularly those of gastrointestinal origin. Successful surgical removal of a solitary liver metastasis may significantly extend survival and optimal preoperative assessment in this regard is a mandatory prerequisite for proper patient selection. The addition of positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) to other more conventional imaging procedures (e.g., ultrasound (US), CT, and magnetic resonance) has the potential to greatly improve the selection process by the combination of high-resolution anatomy afforded by CT directly combined with the functional scintigraphic map of intra- and extrahepatic lesions depicted by 2-deoxy-2-[F-18]fluoro-D-glucose (FDG)-PET. In this study, we assess the additional value of PET/CT in the management strategy of patients with solitary liver metastasis from colorectal and other cancers identified by conventional imaging methods.We evaluated 43 consecutive patients (17 males, 26 females, mean age 53 +/- 6 years) with known solitary liver metastasis. This sample consisted of 18 patients with colorectal cancer, 15 with nonsmall cell lung cancer, six with breast carcinoma, and four ovarian cancers. In addition to contrast-enhanced CT and US, all patients were studied with FDG-PET/CT before surgery. PET/CT was performed within 3 weeks of the initial diagnosis and the scans were read by two experienced radiologists/nuclear medicine specialists blinded to the clinical data. A final diagnosis was obtained at surgery in 31 patients, by fine needle biopsy in five, and long-term clinical, biochemical, and follow-up imaging in seven patients.In 12 out of 43 patients (28%), PET/CT resulted in restaging disease and a change in therapy. Twenty-two of 31 patients with confirmed solitary liver lesions (71%) were disease-free, eight of 31 (26%) developed a new recurrence, and one of 31 (3%) died from disease progression over a 17 +/- 6-month follow-up interval. Nine of 12 patients (75%) with multiple metastases demonstrated by FDG-PET/CT were alive with disease and three of 12 (25%) deceased due to disease progression (p < 0.01) over a 17 +/- 6-month follow-up interval.The addition of FDG-PET/CT to the routine assessment of patients with liver metastasis has a significant impact on disease staging and selection of suitable candidates for solitary liver metastasis resection and outcome.