Visually isoattenuating pancreatic adenocarcinoma at dynamic-enhanced CT: frequency, clinical and pathologic characteristics, and diagnosis at imaging examinations. To retrospectively determine the frequency, clinical and pathologic characteristics, and computed tomographic (CT) findings of visually isoattenuating pancreatic adenocarcinomas and to investigate the utility of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and positron emission tomography (PET)/CT for detecting them.Institutional review board approval was obtained. Patient informed consent was waived. Of 743 consecutive patients with pathologically proved pancreatic cancer, 644 patients (392 men, 252 women mean age, 60 years ± 9.5 [standard deviation]) who had undergone both arterial and portal phase contrast material-enhanced CT were included. Visually isoattenuating pancreatic adenocarcinoma was defined as lesion isoattenuation in both scan phases. Serum levels of carbohydrate antigen 19-9, immunoglobulin G (IgG), and IgG fraction 4 (IgG4), survival after curative-intent surgeryThe frequency of visually isoattenuating pancreatic adenocarcinomas among pancreatic cancers was 5.4% (35 of 644). Serum levels of carbohydrate antigen 19-9, IgG, and IgG4 were elevated in 51.5% (17 of 33), 8.3% (one of 12), and 8.3% (one of 12) of patients, respectively. Visually isoattenuating pancreatic adenocarcinoma, compared with usual pancreatic adenocarcinoma, was independently associated with a better survival after curative-intent surgery: Adjusted hazard ratio was 0.430 (P = .006). Thirty surgically resected visually isoattenuating pancreatic adenocarcinomas were 1.5-4 cm (median, 3 cm). Their pathologic findings differed from those of usual pancreatic adenocarcinomas: lower tumor cellularity, more frequent intratumoral acinar tissue and islet cells, and less prominent tumor necrosis. Visually isoattenuating pancreatic adenocarcinomas showed various abnormalities at CT, which may suggest an isoattenuating mass or nodule. Sensitivities of MR imaging and PET/CT were 79.2% (19 of 24) and 73.7% (14 of 19), respectively.Visually isoattenuating pancreatic adenocarcinoma represents a small but meaningful subset of pancreatic cancer and has characteristic clinical and pathologic features. MR imaging and PET/CT may be useful as subsequent examinations when the patient is suspected of having the lesion at CT.