A quantitative study of motion estimation methods on 4D cardiac gated SPECT reconstruction. Motion-compensated temporal processing can have a major impact on improving the image quality in gated cardiac single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). In this work, we investigate the effect of different optical flow estimation methods for motion-compensated temporal processing in gated SPECT. In particular, we explore whether better motion estimation can substantially improve reconstructed image quality, and how the estimated motion would compare to the ideal case of known motion in terms of reconstruction.We consider the following three methods for obtaining the image motion in 4D reconstruction: (1) the Horn-Schunck optical flow equation (OFE) method, (2) a recently developed periodic OFE method, and (3) known cardiac motion derived from the NURBS-based cardiac-torso (NCAT) phantom. The periodic OFE method is used to exploit the inherent periodic nature in cardiac gated images. In this method, the optical flow in a sequence is modeled by a Fourier harmonic representation, which is then estimated from the image data. We study the impact of temporal processing on 4D reconstructions when the image motion is obtained with the different methods above. For quantitative evaluation, we use simulated imaging with multiple noise realizations from the NCAT phantom, where different patient geometry and lesion sizes are also considered. To quantify the reconstruction results, we use the following measures of reconstruction accuracy and defect detection in the myocardium: (1) overall error level in the myocardium, (2) regional accuracy of the left ventricle (LV) wall, (3) accuracy of regional time activity curves of the LV, and (4) perfusion defect detectability with a channelized Hotelling observer (CHO). In addition, we also examine the effect of noise on the distortion in the reconstructed LV wall shape by detecting its contours. As a preliminary demonstration, these methods are also tested on two sets of clinical acquisitions.For the different quantitative measures considered, the periodic OFE further improved the reconstruction accuracy of the myocardium compared to OFE in 4D reconstruction its improvement in reconstruction almost matched that of the known motion. Specifically, the overall mean-squared error in the myocardium was reduced by over 20% with periodic OFEUse of improved optical flow estimation can further improve the accuracy of reconstructed images in 4D. The periodic OFE method not only can achieve improvements over the traditional OFE, but also can almost match that of the known motion in terms of the several quality measures considered.