The value of F-18-fluorodeoxyglucose PET for the 3-D radiation treatment planning of malignant gliomas. The aim of the study was to determine the impact of positron emission tomography using the glucose analogue fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) on the delineation of the target volume in three-dimensional radiation treatment planning of primary brain tumors.In 18 patients with histologically proven (8x biopsy, 10x subtotal resection) primary brain tumors (8 astrocytomas grade III, one mixed glioma grade III, and 9 glioblastomas), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with gadolinium-DTPA and FDG-PET were performed in radiation treatment position within the same week. A computer program was developed for fusion of the PET and MR images. On corresponding axial slices, FDG uptake was compared to contrast enhancement in T1-weighted and to signal hyperintensity in T2-weighted MR images. Based on PET and MRI data, three-dimensional treatment planning was performed. All patients underwent linear accelerator (LINAC) radiotherapy.In MRI, all tumors and the surrounding edema were visible as hyperintense lesions in the T2-weighted images. 17/18 tumors showed contrast enhancement. In FDG-PET, 16 tumors showed hypermetabolism compared to normal white matter, whereas only 8/18 tumors showed hypermetabolism compared to normal gray matter. White matter edema was associated with decreased FDG uptake in all patients. The area of increased FDG uptake correlated closely with contrast enhancement, only in one case the volume of increased FDG uptake was larger than the area of contrast enhancement. Mean tumor volumes obtained by MRI T1 + Gd, T2, and PET were 30, 106, and 10 ml, respectively. Survival was comparable to data in the literature with a 1-year survival of 39% and a median survival of 310 days.Only in a minority of patients did FDG-PET provide additional information for radiation treatment planning. This is mainly caused by the high intensity of FDG uptake in normal brain tissue. PET may be of greater value in the definition of regions that should obtain a radiation dose boost.