Glucose delivery is a major determinant of glucose utilisation in the ischemic myocardium with a residual coronary flow. Experimental data from isolated rat hearts suggest that glycolysis in severe myocardial ischemia is inhibited by accumulation of glycolytic metabolites. In contrast, positron emission tomography (PET) in patients with myocardial ischemia records a 'mismatch' between the decreased coronary flow in viable ischemic tissue and an increased fluorodeoxyglucose (18FDG) signal. To resolve this contradiction, we investigated glucose uptake at very low coronary flows in the isolated rat heart model.Rates of glucose uptake were measured in the isolated Langendorff-perfused Wistar rat heart, at control (12-15 ml/g wet wt/min) and low coronary flows (0.1, 0.2 and 0.5 ml/g wet wt/min) and at a range of glucose concentrations (2.75, 5.5, 11 and 22 mM).The steady-state rate of glucose uptake versus glucose concentration could be described by a double rectangular hyperbola at each coronary flow. Glucose uptake fell to levels significantly below control at low coronary flows. However, the extraction of glucose (glucose uptake as % of glucose delivered) rose sharply, from 1% at control coronary flows, to 25-30% at low coronary flows. Crossover analysis of glycolytic intermediates in freeze-clamped tissue indicated little inhibition at any specific site, although phosphofructokinase activity was restricted when glycolytic substrate availability was high. Insulin and preconditioning both increased glucose uptake with 11 mM glucose, possibly by increasing membrane transporter density and thus increasing glucose delivery to the cytosol.Despite the reduction in absolute glucose uptake at low coronary flow-rates, the extraction of glucose was greatly increased, possibly following GLUT4 translocation. Delivery of glucose to the glycolytic pathway appears to be a major controlling site of glycolysis in low-flow ischemia. Downstream regulation is then distributed along the pathway with no one site exerting greater inhibition than reduced glucose delivery.