Estimation of regional lung function in interstitial pulmonary disease using 99mTc-technegas and 99mTc-macroaggregated albumin single-photon emission tomography. For quantitative evaluation of the regional lung function in patients with interstitial pulmonary disease (IP) in the sitting position, 99mTc-Technegas and 99mTc-macroaggregated albumin (MAA) single-photon emission tomography (SPET) studies were performed in 12 healthy controls (HC) and 42 IP patients. Four transverse images were prepared from the data obtained and designated as slices no. 1-4 from the top downward. Regions of interest (ROIs) were determined in the anterior and posterior parts of the lung in each slice, and the ratio of the count per voxel in the ROIs to the count in the entire lung was calculated as the regional Technegas index (T). The regional perfusion index (Q) was calculated by a similar procedure using the data of 99mTc-MAA SPET. The ratios between T and Q (T/Q) in the anterior and posterior regions of the lung, and the ratios of T and Q between the anterior and posterior regions of the lung (Tp/Ta and Qp/Qa) were examined. In the HC group, T/Q decreased but Tp/Ta and Qp/Qa increased from the upper to the lower lung fields. When IP patients were classified into (I) those in whom T/Q decreased from the upper to the lower lung fields, (II) those in whom it was similar in all slices, (III) those in whom it increased from slice 3 to slice 4, and (IV) those in whom it increased from slice 2 to slices 3 and 4, this classification was more closely correlated with %VC than with %DLCO or PaO2. When the patients were classified according to Tp/Ta and Qp/Qa into (A) those in whom the values were greater in the lower than the upper lung field, (B) those in whom the values were similar in all slices, and (C) those in whom the values were smaller in lower than in upper lung fields, categories B and C were observed frequently even in patients whose %VC was in the normal range. This method is considered to be an effective means to evaluate the progression and pathology of IP and to detect early impairment of lung function.