Determination of features indicating progression in atypical squamous cells with undetermined significance: human papillomavirus typing and DNA ploidy analysis from liquid-based cytologic samples. The Bethesda System of cervical cytologic findings introduced the term ASCUS (atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance) to cover the broad zone separating normal cytomorphology from definitive squamous intraepithelial lesions (SILs). The management of patients with ASCUS is particularly problematic as approximately 10% of ASCUS patients develop SIL and 1 per 1000 develop cervical carcinoma.Our aim was to demonstrate the combined use of polymerase chain reaction for human papillomavirus (HPV) typing and laser scanning cytometry for DNA content measurements in the subcategorization of ASCUS cases according to the risk for progression toward cancer. Liquid- based monolayer preparation (ThinPrep, Cytyc, Boston, MA) of the cytologic material was used for cytomorphologic analysis. DNA content measurements using laser scanning cytometry and direct sequencing of HPV using the consensus primers GP5+/GP6+ and MY09/MY11 were performed from the same material.Twelve of the 44 cases (27.2%) with ASCUS carried a high-risk HPV genome whereas only 3 of the 195 normal control cases (1.5%) showed positivity for a high-risk HPV genome. Six of 12 (50%) of the high-risk HPV-positive ASCUS cases presented isolated cells with a DNA content above 5c, whereas cells with a DNA content above 9c were found in 3 of 12 cases (25%) and were exclusively found in combination with high-risk HPV infection. In these three cases, the histologic follow-up resulted in cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) I (one case) and CIN III (two cases). None of the other ASCUS or normal cases displayed DNA aneuploidy above 9c. They returned to normal cytology (within normal limits/benign cellular changes) in the follow-up.Human papillomavirus typing and DNA content measurements may delineate a distinct group of ASCUS. Our preliminary data suggest that ASCUS cases with high-risk HPV positivity and with rare cells with abnormally high DNA content represent similar biologic features as high-grade SIL and are at elevated risk to develop cancer.