Rescreening in cervical cytology for quality control. When bad data is worse than no data or what works, what doesn't, and why. The currently mandated methods to measure the sensitivity of Papanicolaou smear interpretation (including the 5-year look back and review of 10% of negative smears) are misleading. They do not allow one to measure the true sensitivity of the test and allow only a small fraction of errors to be detected and corrected. Rapid prescreening and automated screening are the only methods that seem practically feasible, and will allow the sensitivity of the method to be measured on a routine basis, and, thereby allow a reduction in overall errors. Although emerging technologies, such as HPV testing, may allow alternative methods of measuring sensitivity, the most appropriate way to use and interpret these data in this context are not yet fully developed. Unfortunately, at present there seems to be little desire to change the way things are done, and, therefore, to accurately measure sensitivity in cervical cytology. The first task that needs to be undertaken in fixing a problem is to admit that one exists. At present, most laboratory directors believe that their own laboratory is performing satisfactorily. They may well be, although the laboratories lack an analytic method to demonstrate this, and, therefore, the need for better QA methods does not seem to be acute. There is some educational value to the currently practiced and mandated performance measures, the 5-year look back and review of 10% of negative smears. Most laboratory directors seem to be happy with their QA methods and are not concerned that the data that are derived from the 10% review of negative slides does not reflect their actual sensitivity of screening in any meaningful way. Unfortunately, the forces that are currently in place in the United States ensure that accurate measures of the sensitivity of cervical cytology interpretation are unlikely to be implemented beyond the level of individual experimentation. As long as the expectation of cytologists is that the error rates are significantly less than they actually are as long as there is significant legal and financial risk to actually measuring the true sensitivity