Squamous intraepithelial lesions arising in benign endocervical polyps: a report of 9 cases with correlation to the Pap smears, HPV analysis, and immunoprofile. Screening for cervical cancer has the potential to detect precancerous lesions and cancers in early stages, which can be effectively treated. Screening tests currently used in the United States on cervical cell samples include the Papanicolaou (Pap) test to detect cellular changes, as well as tests for high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) genotypes. A particular challenge is the management of women with test results of atypical squamous cells of unknown significance (ASCUS) or of low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LSIL) on cytology or those with a normal Pap test but a positive test for high-risk HPV genotypes, since only a fraction of these women will have a finding on colposcopically directed tissue biopsy that warrants treatment (e.g., high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia [CIN]). We aimed to examine the role of in situ hybridization (ISH) tests, including fluorescence ISH (FISH), to detect chromosomal abnormalities or DNA from high-risk oncogenic HPV genotypes on cervical cytologic specimens to increase the clinical validity of identification of precancerous lesions or cervical cancer.MEDLINE® (from inception to October 2011, week 2), the Cochrane Central Trials Registry (through the fourth quarter of 2011), and Scopus (including Embase) on November 7, 2011, with no language exclusion. The searches were updated on July 12, 2012.We used established systematic review methods to identify articles on the basis of predetermined eligibility criteria: studies of ISH tests in cervical tissue from at least 10 women. We addressed four Key Questions (KQs). For KQ1, a horizon scan of what ISH tests have been examined with what frequency, we included any study that tested ISH in cervical cytology or histology. While most studies evaluated an ISH assay examining multiple probes, this scan served to focus the subsequent detailed evidence review on the most commonly studied ISH tests, which included probes for the telomerase RNA component gene (TERC [3q26]), the myelocytomatosis oncogene (MYC [8q24]), HPV 16, or HPV 18, alone or in combination with other probes. For KQ2, about the analytic validity of ISH testing, we included any study that used ISH with any of these four probes in cervical cytology or histology specimens and compared the ISH test with a non-ISH reference test. For KQ3, about the clinical validity of ISH testing on cervical cytology for high-grade CIN on histology, cervical cancer or clinical outcomes related to morbidity and mortality from cervical cancer, we included any study using ISH with any of the four probes in cervical cytology specimens to detect high-grade CIN or cervical cancer (or clinical outcomes). Cervical cytology had to be classified according to the Bethesda classification as ASCUS or LSIL or as normal in combination with a positive HPV test. Histology outcomes had to be defined as CIN and had to be expressible as either CIN3+ (i.e., CIN3 or cervical cancer) or CIN2+ (i.e., CIN2, CIN3, or cervical cancer). Studies had to provide data that allowed for calculation of sensitivity and specificity. For KQ4, about the clinical utility and possible harms of ISH testing, we reviewed studies that compared patient management strategies using different screening or testing algorithms, including ISH testing.The literature search yielded a total of 1462 abstracts, of which we screened 227 in full text. For KQ1, 135 articles described use of ISH on cervical specimens (cytologic or histologic), and 116 involved ISH using one of the four probes of interest: 31 used an ISH probe for TERC, with 7 of these also using probes for MYC and 91 studies used an ISH probe for HPV 16, with 87 of these also using a probe for HPV 18. (Five studies used both a TERC probe and an HPV 16 or 18 probe). For KQ2, 14 studies provided data on agreement between ISH tests with an HPV 16 or 18 probe (among other HPV probes) and HPV reference tests (polymerase chain reaction [PCR] or Hybrid Capture 2). (None compared a FISH test for TERC or MYC with a DNA-based reference test.) The agreement between each ISH–non-ISH test pair was variable, reflecting differences in measurement techniques between the ISH tests and reference tests as well as the use of nonoverlapping panels of probes. Assessment of study quality showed deficiencies in reporting. For KQ3, 10 studies provided information on the clinical validity of FISH tests for CIN2+ or CIN3+. Of these, eight provided results for FISH using a TERC probe (with three using probes for both TERC and MYC)Overall, the evidence of the analytic and clinical validity of ISH tests in screening for cervical cancer was limited. Further research is needed to standardize techniques compare clinical validity, thresholds, and combinations across different ISH testsEndocervical polyps are common benign lesions that typically arise in the endocervical canal of women from 40 to 60 years old. The reported incidence of squamous intraepithelial lesion (SIL) occurring in an endocervical polyp is typically less than 1/1,000 (0.1%). We report on 9 cases of SIL arising in otherwise classic benign endocervical polyps these lesions were from a pool of about 1500 endocervical polyps for an incidence of approximately 0.5%. Five cases were low-grade SIL