Correlation of human papilloma virus infection with cytology, colposcopy and histopathological examination of the bioptic tissue in low- and high-grade intraepithelial lesions. It is now believed that the majority of cervical cancer is preceded by long-term infection with high-risk types of the human papilloma virus (HPV). The presence of HPV high-risk types (HR-HPV) in the cells of intraepithelial change multiplies the possibility of its progressive development to high-grade cervical precancer and invasive disease.This study examined the correlation of HPV infection with cytology, colposcopy, and histopathological examination of the bioptic tissue in low- and high-grade cervical lesions.This research was conducted as a study section. Data collection was performed during a ten-year period, at the University Clinic of Gynecology and Obstetrics - Narodni Front in Belgrade (Serbia). The basic set included 1,927 patients. Colposcopy, cytology, histopathology, and HPV test verification was made in all patients. Statistical analysis was performed using the SPSS program, version 17.0. Contingency tables were used to assess the degree of correlation of variables and chi-square test was used to determine the level of statistical significance in this study. A p value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.Among 1,927 women studied, 635 (32.95 %) had abnormal cytological findings and among these, 272 (42.83%) were HR-HPV positive. There was a statistical difference between colposcopic and cytological findings in patients with HR-HPV (x2 = 35.33, p = 0.000). There was also a statistically significant difference between histophatological and colposcopical findings in patients with HR-HPV (x2 = 10,171, p = 0.001). Only HR-HPV types 16 and 18 showed a statistical significance compared to histopathological findings, unlike other HR-HPV. An important finding was that the authors found an abnormal colposcopy in 93.30% patients with low-grade intraepithelial neoplasia and 68.05% patients with low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (LSIL) had normal cytology and was 70.15 % HR-HPV negative.The findings imply that among high-grade intraepithelial neoplasias, the authors found a high presence of HPV type 16 and 18, and a statistical significant presence of HPV 16 in low-grade intraepithelial neoplasia, unlike other HR-HPV types in low-grade intraepithelial findings. The authors found a significant statistical correlation with abnormal cytology and presence of HPV type 16 in both groups (LSIL and high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (HSIL). The authors also found an abnormal colposcopy in 93.30% of patients with low-grade intraepithelial neoplasia, while 68.05% of patients with LSIL had normal cytology and were HR-HPV negative in 70.15% of the cases.