Pap test used for detection of cellular changes associated with human papillomavirus. Human papilloma virus can infect any mucous of the body and can cause cancer of the uterine cervix. This suggests recommending the Papanicolaou smear combined with a test for detection of human papillomavirus with a frequency interval of 3 years, since it grants greater information and fidelity to the result. The detection studies should begin at the age of 21 years and should stop at 65 years age. Until recently specific treatments did not exist to treat human papilloma virus, but recently some drugs that have demonstrated good effectiveness in curing the infection of human papilloma virus. One example is glycirrhicinic acid, which has demonstrated fewer adverse effects, as well as the possibility that its systemic employment allows treatment of lesions that are difficult to approach. The medical recommendations should be in constant revision, since a clinical trial can modify the interpretation of what is necessary to individualize each patient's treatment.El virus del papiloma humano puede infectar cualquier mucosa del cuerpo y causar cáncer del cuello uterino. La última recomendación sugiere realizar la prueba de Papanicolaou combinada con una prueba para detección del virus del papiloma humano aproximadamente cada tres años. Los estudios de detección deben iniciarse a los 21 años de edad y debe detenerse el seguimiento a los 65 años si no existen factores de riesgo asociados que indiquen lo contrario. Hasta hace poco no existían tratamientos específicos contra el papiloma, pero han surgido algunos fármacos que han demostrado buena efectividad como el ácido glicirricínico, con menos efectos adversos y posibilidad de su empleo sistémico para combatir las lesiones difíciles. Cuando no son tratadas, las lesiones por el virus del papiloma humano pueden tener implicaciones sobre la reproducción, la recurrencia de infecciones genitales oportunistas y la anatomía. La identificación y modificación de los cofactores son de suma importancia ya que con ello se modula la persistencia y la progresión de la infección del virus del papiloma humano a neoplasia. Las recomendaciones médicas deben estar en constante revisión, ya que el juicio del clínico puede modificar la interpretación, por lo que es necesario personalizar el tratamiento a cada paciente.