Arg72Pro polymorphism of p53 may predict poor response to medical treatment in ulcerative colitis. Arg72Pro is a polymorphism commonly occurring in the proline-rich domain of Tp53. It can determine the development of different types of cancers, such as breast, lung, cervical, colorectal and hepatocellular carcinoma. Previous studies reported a correlation between Pro72 homozygosity and the clinical course of ulcerative colitis (UC). Our aim was to evaluate Arg72Pro genotype in patients who underwent proctocolectomy with ileo-pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA) for UC compared with those who did not need surgery.The distribution of the different genotype of Arg72Pro was studied in 264 (234 medically treated [MT] and 30 IPAA) patients affected with UC observed between 2008 and 2011. IPAA patients underwent restorative proctocolectomy for refractory UC MT ones were managed medically. Blood samples for genotyping were collected from all patients. Arg72Pro genotype analysis was carried out by polymerase chain reaction confronting two-pair primers (PCR-CTPP).In MT patients (n=234) Arg/Arg, Arg/Pro and Pro/Pro frequencies were 51.28%, 41.02% and 7.7%, respectively, while in IPAA patients (n=30) were 53.4%, 23.3% and 23.3%, respectively. A statistically significant association was found between Pro/Pro and need for surgery (p=<0.0059, χ =7.59).Our results showed that the Pro/Pro genotype was higher in IPAA (23.3%) than in MT (7.7%) patients. In UC patients the proline homozygosity identifies likeliness to resist to any standard pharmacologic therapy. It could potentially identify patients who would benefit from early surgical treatment, thereby reducing the rate of emergency colectomies and complications related to them.Arg72Pro, Arg72Pro polymorphism, Ileopouch-anal anastomosis, IPAA, p53 polymorphism, Ulcerative colitis.dominio ricco di proline del gene Tp53. Tale polimorfismo può determinare lo sviluppo di diversi tipi di cancro, quali il tumore della mammella, del polmone, della cervice, del colon-retto e del fegato. Studi precedenti hanno riportato un’associazione tra omozigosi Pro72 ed il decorso clinico della Colite Ulcerosa (CU).Nostro obiettivo è stato valutare il genotipo Arg72Pro in pazienti sottoposti a proctocolectomia restaurativa (PR) con pouch ileale pelvica ed anastomosi ileopouch anale per CU e di confrontare tali dati con quelli di pazienti affetti da CU responsivi alla terapia medica.Le distribuzioni dei diversi genotipi di Arg72Pro sono state esaminate in 264 pazienti (234 trattati con terapia medica [TM] e 30 sottoposti a PR).osservati tra il 2008 ed il 2011. Nei pazienti operati la PR è stata effettuata per refrattarietà alla terapia medica. In tutti i pazienti sono stati prelevati campioni ematici ed è stata eseguita l’analisi del genotipo Arg72Pro mediante polymerase chain reaction con due primer appaiati (PCR-CTPP).Nei pazienti sottoposti con successo a TM (n=234) abbiamo riscontrato tali distribuzioni: Arg/Arg 51.28% Arg/Pro 41.02%I nostri risultati dimostrano che il genotipo Pro/Pro è maggiormente riscontrato in pazienti sottoposti a PR (23.3%) che in quelli responsivi a TM (7.7%). Nei pazienti affetti da CU tale omozigosi identifica verosimile resistenza alla TM, e portebbe essere utilizzata per selezionare pazienti che potrebbero beneficiare di un approccio chirurgico precoce, riducendo – in ultima analisi – il tasso di colectomie d’urgenza e le relative complicanze.