P-glycoprotein, HER-2/neu, and mutant p53 expression in human gynecologic tumors. Overexpression of P-glycoprotein has been associated with a worse prognosis for some groups of patients not receiving chemotherapy. Recently, it has been demonstrated that in vitro both c-Ha-Ras overexpression and mutant p53 overexpression do activate the MDR1 gene (also known as PGY1) in murine NIH 3T3 cells. This direct connection between oncogenic activation, antioncogenic malfunctioning (presence of mutant instead of wild-type p53 protein), and MDR1 gene expression constitutes a fundamental conceptual model that could provide an explanation for the obscure prognostic role, in the absence of chemotherapy, of the MDR1 gene.Our goal was to test whether the relationship between MDR1 (P-glycoprotein) expression, oncogenic activation, and mutant p53 protein expression demonstrated in vitro is also reproducible in vivo for two groups of human gynecologic tumors.Fifty tumor specimens (31 mammary, 11 endometrial, and eight cervical) were analyzed. They had been obtained from previously untreated patients. Aliquots of these specimens had been frozen and stored at -70 degrees C since surgical collection or routinely fixed in formalin and embedded in paraffin. DNA was extracted from routinely fixed specimens for single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis. Immunohistochemical techniques were used on frozen material to determine: 1) P-glycoprotein expression using two different monoclonal antibodies (c219 and JSB1) 2) HER-2/neu (c-erb-B2A statistically significant (P = .009 Fisher's exact test) association between HER-2/neu and MDR1 expression was found for the more aggressive form of inoperable, locally advanced mammary carcinoma. Expression of HER-2/neu or mutant p53 was similar in both tumor groups studied--mammary carcinoma with a low basal expression of P-glycoprotein compared with endometrial and cervical carcinomas with significantly (P = .0002The highly statistically significant coexpression of P-glycoprotein and HER-2/neu took place only in the subgroup of aggressive, locally advanced, inoperable mammary carcinomas, whereas no statistically significant association could be found for operable tumors. No association between mutant p53 expression and MDR1 activation was found in the human tumors analyzed.