Expression of the 67 KD laminin receptor in human cervical preneoplastic and neoplastic squamous epithelial lesions: an immunohistochemical study. Interactions of cancer cells with laminin play a critical role during the progression of solid malignant tumours. Increased expression of the 67 kD laminin receptor (67LR), one of the several laminin binding proteins, is associated with the invasive and metastatic capacity of various types of cancer, including breast, colon, ovary, lung, and endometrial carcinoma. In this study, 67LR expression was analysed in a series of cervical biopsy specimens including 16 normal cervical tissues, 36 low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (SILs), 24 high-grade SILs, and 11 invasive carcinomas. Detection of the 67LR was performed using immunoperoxidase staining and the monoclonal antibody MLuC5 which specifically recognizes the 67LR. Immunostaining of the 67LR was correlated with human papillomavirus (HPV) type detected by in situ hybridization and with proliferative activity of the lesion determined by immunohistochemistry with the MIB-1 monoclonal antibody, specific for the Ki67 antigen. Increased expression of the 67LR was correlated with the histological severity of the lesions, with the strongest immunoreactivity being found in invasive carcinomas. Significant differences in 67LR expression were found between normal cervical epithelium and high-grade SILs (P < 0.05, non-parametric Mann-Whitney test) or invasive carcinomas (P < 0.001), as well as between low- or high-grade SILs and invasive carcinoma (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively). Ki67 antigen expression also increased with the severity of the lesions. There was a positive correlation for each type of lesion between expression of the 67LR and of the Ki67 antigen. No specific relationship was found between 67LR or Ki67 antigen immunostaining and HPV type detected in SILs, segregated into low-grade and high-grade lesions. These data add weight to the evidence that increased expression of the 67LR is a consistent, but not sufficient feature of the invasive and metastatic phenotype and suggest that high expression of the 67LR might be associated with both more proliferative and more aggressive cervical (pre)neoplastic lesions.