High-risk human papillomavirus infection and E6 protein expression in lesions of the uterine cervix. Pathologic and epidemiologic investigations carried out over the past several years have provided evidence that carcinogenesis in the uterine cervix is a multi-step process involving discreet preinvasive stages. Molecular epidemiologic data also indicate that human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is a critical factor in the tumor progression process. In vitro studies have shown that for the initiation and maintenance of the malignant phenotype, the expression of the HPV-transforming protein E6 is required. The E6 protein produced by the high-risk HPV types 16 and 18 can bind to and inactivate the tumor suppressor protein p53 leading to deregulated proliferation and defective apoptosis, thus facilitating tumor progression. Therefore, determination of the HPV genotype alone may not be sufficient in assessing tumor progression in the uterine cervix. In the present study, a total of 623 cervical tissue samples at various phases of tumor progression were assessed for HPV infection by nonisotopic in situ hybridization (NISH) and for HPV 16/18 E6 protein expression by immunocytochemistry. There was significant correlation between the extent of histological abnormality and HPV infection. Significant correlation (r = 0.707, p = 0.000) was observed between the presence of HPV 16 and high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (SILs) and invasive cancer. The odds ratio of a cervical tissue infected with HPV 16 falling into these two categories was 44.57 (95% CI: 27.10, 73.30). The E6 protein also was mostly detected in high-grade SILs and cervical cancer tissue expressing either HPV 16 or 18. It was less frequent in low-grade SILs infected with HPV 16/18 and was absent in benign cervical tissue infected with HPV 16. The odds ratio of an HPV-16/18-infected cervical tissue positive for E6 being a high-grade SIL or invasive cancer was 16.20 (95% CI: 6.06, 43.33). These results thus show the clinical utility of HPV characterization along with the analysis of the transforming protein E6 in the assessment of tumor progression in the uterine cervix.