A positron emission tomography (PET) study of cerebral dopamine D2 and serotonine 5-HT2A receptor occupancy in patients treated with cyamemazine (Tercian). Cyamemazine (Tercian) is an antipsychotic drug with anxiolytic properties. Recently, an in vitro study showed that cyamemazine possesses high affinity for serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptors, which was fourfold higher than its affinity for dopamine D(2) receptors (Hameg et al. 2003).The aim of this study is to confirm these previous data in vivo in patients treated with clinically relevant doses of Tercian.Eight patients received 37.5, 75, 150 or 300 mg/day of Tercian depending on their symptomatology. Dopamine D(2) and serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptor occupancies (RO) were assessed at steady-state plasma levels of cyamemazine with positron emission tomography (PET), using [(11)C]raclopride and [(11)C]N-methyl-spiperone, respectively. The effective plasma level of the drug leading to 50% of receptor occupancy was estimated by fitting RO with plasma levels of cyamemazine at the time of the PET scan.Cyamemazine induced near saturation of 5-HT(2A) receptors (RO=62.1-98.2%) in the frontal cortex even at low plasma levels of the drug. On the contrary, occupancy of striatal D(2) receptors increased with plasma levels, and no saturation was obtained even at high plasma levels (RO=25.2-74.9%). The effective plasma level of cyamemazine leading to 50% of D(2) receptor occupancy was fourfold higher than that for 5-HT(2A) receptors. Accordingly, individual 5-HT(2A)/D(2) RO ratios ranged from 1.26 to 2.68. No patients presented relevant increased prolactin levels, and only mild extrapyramidal side effects were noticed on Simpson and Angus Scale.This in vivo binding study conducted in patients confirms previous in vitro findings indicating that cyamemazine has a higher affinity for serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptors compared to dopamine D(2) receptors. In the dose range 37.5-300 mg, levels of dopamine D(2) occupancy remained below the level for motor side effects observed with typical antipsychotics and is likely to explain the low propensity of the drug to induce extrapyramidal side effects.