Gated SPET myocardial perfusion acquisition within 5 minutes using focussing collimators and a three-head gamma camera. Short acquisition protocols for gated single-photon emission tomography (SPET) myocardial perfusion imaging are desirable for sequential imaging to evaluate the myocardial response during pharmacological intervention. In this study a less than 5 min gated SPET acquisition protocol is proposed. Perfusion characteristics (defect severity) and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes (EDV, ESV), wall motion (WM) and wall thickening (WT) were calculated, checked for reproducibility and compared with data obtained using a standard gated SPET acquisition protocol. Gated SPET images were recorded in 20 patients starting 60 min after the administration of 925 MBq technetium-99m tetrofosmin at rest. The 5 min gated SPET studies were acquired with a three-head camera equipped with Cardiofocal collimators. This protocol was repeated twice. In addition gated SPET studies were acquired according to a standard protocol using parallel-hole collimators. The severity of perfusion defects was quantified on polar maps using the non-gated image data and a normal database. LVEF, EDV, ESV, WM and WT were calculated from the gated images. The agreement between 5-min and standard gated SPET acquisitions was excellent for all investigated parameters. The reproducibility of repeated 5-min acquisitions for the quantification of perfusion defect severity was excellent (r=0.97). The agreement for segmental WT scores between repeated 5-min gated SPET acquisitions was good: kappa=0.71 major differences in segmental classification were observed in 2.5%. For WM a good agreement was found for segments with a tracer uptake >/=30% of the maximum: kappa=0.65, major differences =7.7%. Excellent reproducibility was found for LVEF, EDV and ESV measurements: r=0.97, 0.99 and 0.99, respectively. It is concluded that fast gated SPET perfusion studies acquired in less than 5 min yield accurate and reproducible measurements of myocardial perfusion and function (global and regional). In addition the results obtained with the 5-min gated SPET protocol correlate well with those obtained using a standard acquisition protocol.