Implications of certain genetic polymorphisms in scarring in vesicoureteric reflux: importance of ACE polymorphism. Polymorphisms of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) have been shown to affect renal prognosis in a number of diseases. We examined the influence of deletion (D) and insertion (I) polymorphism in the angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) gene and the other polymorphic markers of RAS, and that of plasminogen-activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) on renal scarring in reflux nephropathy. Ninety-four children with third- or fourth-degree reflux were the subject of the study. They were stratified into two groups according to the technetium-99m-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) findings: the first group consisted of 41 patients with no scar formation. In the second group (n = 53), there was significant scar formation in the refluxing units. ACE levels, ACE gene, angiotensin-1 receptor (AT1) A1166C, angiotensinogen (ATG) M235T, and PAI-1 4G/5G polymorphisms were studied. In the second group with scarred kidneys, 18 patients had decreased renal function. The frequency of patients homozygous for the D allele was significantly greater in the second group with scar formation in the refluxing units compared with the first group of patients (P < 0.005). On multivariate analysis, the DD genotype was the only factor that had a significant impact on renal scar formation, introducing a 4.9-fold risk (P < 0.05, 95% confidence interval). We were unable to find any correlation with the presence ofDD genotype and hypertension, decreased renal function, proteinuria, or sex of the patient. DDgenotype correlated with the serum ACE levels (P < 0.005). AT1and ATGpolymorphisms and PAI-1 polymorphism did not correlate with scar formation or any of the parameters. This study provides evidence that the DDgenotype of ACE may be a genetic susceptibility factor contributing to adverse renal prognosis in reflux nephropathy namely, scar formation. The role of the synergism between the aforementioned genetic polymorphisms can be enlightened with larger patient groups, possibly through multicenter studies.