Clinical and urodynamic evaluation after ureterocystoplasty with different amounts of tissue. Ureter is one of the best tissues for bladder augmentation. The amount of ureteral segment available is extremely variable among patients. We compared results in patients who underwent ureterocystoplasty with 2 ureters, 1 complete ureter or a distal segment only after transureteroureterostomy.During a 6-year period we performed 32 ureterocystoplasties at 2 pediatric centers in Argentina (16) and Chile (16). Median patient age at surgery was 9 years (range 4 months to 20 years). Clinical presentation included urinary infection, hydronephrosis, incontinence and undiversion. The diagnosis was neurogenic bladder in 20 cases, infravesical obstruction in 7, massive reflux in 3 and ureterocele in 2. All patients had poor bladder compliance and vesicoureteral reflux. We used different options to augment the bladder, including 2 ureters in 5 patients, bilateral nephrectomy in 3, a complete duplex system in 1 and a bilateral partial ureter in 1 (group 1) a complete ureter in 14 (group 2), and a distal segment of ureter with transureteroureterostomy in 13 (group 3). When transureteroureterostomy was performed, a suprapubic tube remained indwelling for 2 weeks and a Double-J stent was placed for 1 month. Median followup was 16 months (range 4 months to 6 years). Clinical and radiological evaluations, including ultrasound, cystography, urodynamics, renal scan and renal function measurement, were done 4 months postoperatively and twice yearly thereafter as needed.We noted no significant difference in bladder capacity when 1 or 2 ureters were used. Median increase in bladder capacity in groups 1 and 2 was 375% (range 80 to 800). All patients who received a complete segment of ureter had clinical improvement, decreased hydronephrosis and resolution of reflux with improved bladder compliance. When a partial segment of ureter was used median capacity increased 230% (range 40 to 400) with clinical improvement in 12 patients (92.3%). Compliance improved, which led to longer intervals between clean intermittent catheterizations. No patient has needed repeat augmentation to date.There is a difference in median increased bladder capacity when a segment of distal ureter is used to augment the bladder versus 1 or 2 whole ureters. However, the use of distal ureter still represents a safe alternative for augmenting the bladder and simultaneously resolving massive reflux. Ureterocystoplasty is an excellent choice for increasing bladder capacity and improving bladder compliance despite the different amounts of tissue available.