Outcome of gastrocystoplasty in tertiary pediatric urology practice. Although the use of stomach for bladder reconstruction has become popular during the last decade, it is not a panacea. We review our experience with gastrocystoplasty.We completed a retrospective chart review of 11 females and 12 males, 1.5 to 22.5 years old (mean age 10) who underwent gastrocystoplasty at Hôpital Sainte-Justine, Montreal, Quebec and Children's Hospital, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada between December 1990 and 1998. Primary diagnoses included spinal dysraphism in 14 patients, posterior urethral valves in 3, cloacal exstrophy in 2, cloacal outlet anomaly in 2, multiple failed ureteral reimplantations with bladder dysfunction in 1 and neurogenic bladder of uncertain etiology in 1. Three patients presented with chronic renal failure. Concurrent reconstructive surgery included ureteral reimplantation in 10 patients, bladder neck plasty in 4 or closure in 4, and continent urinary diversion in 5.Acute postoperative complications included urosepsis in 2 cases, bowel obstruction in 2 and ureteral obstruction in 1. Followup ranged from 4 to 86 months (mean 45). Long-term complications consisted of intractable hematuria-dysuria syndrome in 5 cases, inability to catheterize in 3, perineal urinary fistula in 2, new onset hydronephrosis in 2, continent stomal stenosis in 1 and bladder calculus in 1. Proton pump inhibitors and/or histamine 2 antagonists were used in 16 of the 23 patients to prevent the hematuria-dysuria syndrome. In 5 cases the hematuria-dysuria syndrome was poorly controlled medically and 3 were converted to another form of urinary reconstruction. In 18 of 20 cases voiding cystourethrography revealed no vesicoureteral reflux, and in 18 of 21 ultrasound documented stable or improved upper tracts. Socially acceptable urinary continence was attained in 19 of the 21 patients.The use of stomach for bladder augmentation may be considered in patients with cloacal exstrophy and/or metabolic acidosis. Histamine blockers and/or proton pump inhibitors may be required to prevent the hematuria-dysuria syndrome. Symptoms of the hematuria-dysuria syndrome may be disabling and may mandate alternative forms of urinary tract reconstruction.