Long-term results of treatment of single-system ectopic ureters. Single-system ureteral ectopia (UE) encompasses a spectrum of malformations involving the bladder trigone, ureter, and kidney. The clinical presentation is variable, and both diagnostic and therapeutic problems are common. Reduced renal function in these patients may result from primary dysplasia, obstruction, vesicoureteral reflux, or recurrent infection. Based on our experience of seven patients, suggestions for diagnostic procedures and criteria for renal saving versus nephrectomy are offered. The relationship between ostium localization, renal function, and long-term results was investigated. From 1972 to 1990, five female and two male patients were studied. During the same period, 31 patients with UE and duplex kidneys were seen. Ages ranged from 1 day to 7 years. A ureteric opening into the bladder neck was associated with dilatation of the ureter and renal pelvis. Two patients had vaginal ectopia and severe renal dysplasia. In one, a cyst of the vaginal wall (Gardner's cyst) was detected at birth. A male newborn had multicystic renal dysplasia on the left and ureteric ectopia to the ductus deferens on the right side. To our knowledge, he is the first patient reported with renal function totally dependent on a kidney with severe UE. Follow-up ranged from 4 to 9 years. One patient died in the postoperative period because of renal failure and sepsis. All the others are well and have normal creatinine values. Improvement of renal function was noted after ureteral reimplantation (URI) in patients with bladder-neck ectopia. The numbers of infections were also drastically reduced. Our observations suggest that the combination of ultrasound, cyst urethrography, and cystoscopy will be diagnostic in most patients. A suspicion of UE should be raised in symptomatic patients with apparently solitary kidneys, enuresis ureterica, or atypical obstructive uropathy. Reduced renal function in some patients with ectopia to the bladder neck will improve after URI. This may be of importance in patients with bilateral anomalies and marginal renal function.