Reflux nephropathy in infancy: a comparison of infants presenting with and without urinary tract infection. We compared the incidence of renal scarring in infants with high grade vesicoureteral reflux in those presenting with and without urinary tract infection.We reviewed the medical records of 81 male and 46 female infants (194 renal refluxing units) with a mean age of 4 months who had grade IV or V primary vesicoureteral reflux and underwent an anti-reflux procedure between 1984 and 1997. Dimercapto-succinic acid (DMSA) scans and voiding cystourethrography were performed in all cases. Patients were followed for 2 to 16 years, including 90% for greater than 3 years. Renal ultrasound and DMSA scan were done at followup.A total of 97 patients (76%) (148 refluxing renal units) presented clinically with urinary tract infection. The initial DMSA scan demonstrated renal scarring in 40 of the 106 grade IV (38%) and 28 of the 42 grade V (67%) refluxing renal units. There was no scarring on followup in previously normal refluxing renal units. Of the patients 30 (24%) (46 refluxing renal units) were diagnosed before a urinary tract infection developed, 16 underwent screening due to vesicoureteral reflux in a sibling and in 10 reflux was initially suspected due to hydronephrosis on prenatal ultrasound. In the remaining 4 patients vesicoureteral reflux was suspected during abdominal ultrasound to investigate abdominal pain, jaundice, associated hypospadias and fetal alcohol syndrome, respectively. DMSA scan showed evidence of scarring in 6 of 21 grade IV (29%) and 9 of 25 grade V (36%) refluxing renal units in this group. Followup revealed scarring in only 1 previously normal refluxing renal unit.The incidence of reflux nephropathy in primary grade V vesicoureteral reflux is lower in cases detected by screening and with treatment it remained lower than in cases of urinary tract infection that presented clinically. Early treatment of grade V vesicoureteral reflux made possible by screening may prevent renal damage.