Contrast-enhanced harmonic imaging for the diagnosis of vesicoureteral reflux in pediatric patients. Harmonic imaging using phase or pulse inversion technology is a new sonographic diagnostic modality that has the potential to produce images of a higher quality than can be obtained with the conventional method. The aim of this study was to compare both types of harmonic modalities--tissue and contrast harmonic imaging--with the fundamental imaging mode in contrast-enhanced B-mode sonographic diagnosis of vesicoureteral reflux.Fifty-four children presenting for diagnostic examination of vesicoureteral reflux underwent standard sonography of the urinary tract in the fundamental mode, followed by intravesical administration of a galactose-based contrast medium containing microbubbles. The contrast-enhanced sonography was conducted by scanning the bladder and each kidney in transverse and longitudinal planes, from ventral and dorsal views, consecutively in B-mode using fundamental, contrast harmonic, and tissue harmonic imaging modalities. Soft-touch buttons on the console screen were used to alternate between the three imaging options, so that switching from one modality to the other could be done almost instantaneously. For comparison, in each patient, we selected one set of contrast-enhanced images of the bladder and two sets, one ventral and one dorsal, of the kidney. In a series, the images were compared and ranked from 1 to 3, with 1 being the best, with regard to sonomorphology (demarcation of the retrovesical space and renal pelvis as the potential sites to look for vesicoureteral reflux) and reflux detection and conspicuity, if present.In all, 248 sets of images were available for comparison. The delineation of both the retrovesical space and the renal pelvis was found to be best with tissue harmonic imaging in 84% and 96% of the image sets, respectively (p < 0.01). Forty-one sets of images were compared from 27 kidney-ureter image units of 22 children (41%) with reflux. The refluxing microbubbles were much more conspicuous in the harmonic imaging mode (tissue harmonic, 100% contrast harmonic, 93%) than in the fundamental mode (p < 0.01). In eight kidney-ureter units, the reflux was detected only by using the harmonic imaging modalities.Visualization of the urinary tract and detection of ultrasound contrast media is significantly improved by the use of the harmonic imaging modalities. When both fundamental and harmonic imaging options are available, we recommend harmonic imaging for contrast-enhanced sonographic diagnosis of vesicoureteral reflux.