Vesicoureteral reflux grading in contrast-enhanced voiding urosonography. The sonographic diagnosis of vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) with contrast-enhanced voiding urosonography (VUS) is gradually increasing. With the introduction of VUS as part of the routine diagnostic imaging modalities for reflux significant reduction in the number of voiding cystourethrographies (VCUG) was possible. Like in VCUG grading of reflux in VUS is becoming more and more relevant. The aim of this study was to find out if there are any sonomorphologic and sonomorphometric parameters that would correlate with reflux grading in VCUG. Furthermore, a reflux grading system for VUS is proposed and the correlation of this grading system tested with the one of VCUG.In one examination session a total of 186 children underwent both VUS and VCUG of whom 89 had VUR in at least one and the same kidney-ureter-unit (KUU) in both diagnostic imagings. The VUS was conducted with intravesical administration of ultrasound (US) contrast medium (Levovist). Ureteral and pelvicalyceal dilatations before administration of US contrast medium and during reflux were documented. Renal pelvic diameter was measured. The density of microbubbles in the renal pelves was scored on a scale of 1-3 (low to high). A grading system for reflux in VUS was set up similar to the international reflux grading system for VCUG with the addition of one more differentiation parameter, namely whether the reflux was primarily in a dilated or non-dilated urinary tract. Reflux grades in VUS were compared with those in VCUG.None of the sonomorphologic and sonomorphometric parameters demonstrated any clear cut finding that would simplify reflux grading in VUS. In 59/95 (62%) KUUs the reflux grades were the same in both examinations. In 10/95 (11%) and 26/95 (27%) KUUs, the reflux was graded lower or higher, respectively, in VUS than in VCUG. Fifty-seven percent were in a primarily dilated system and the remaining 43% in a non-dilated one. Seventy percent of KUUs diagnosed as having grade I reflux in VCUG, showed as grade 2 on VUS.A reflux grading system similar to the one used in VCUG can be applied in VUS. Adding the parameter reflux into a primarily dilated or non-dilated ureter and/or pelvicalyceal system may bring in a further dimension to the reflux grading in VUS. Most of the refluxes labelled as grade I in VCUG are actually grade II or higher.