Neonates with extra-renal pelvis: the first 2 years. Extra-renal pelvis (ERpel) is a common ultrasonographic finding among neonates who have undergone recurrent ultrasound examinations for a better definition of prenatal renal pelvic dilatation. This study tries to determine whether or not ERpel has important prognostic implications. Seventy-nine neonates (17 female) were examined. All had a diagnosis of prenatal renal pelvis dilatation, which was shown by postnatal ultrasound to be ERpel. Sixty ERpel neonates were examined 1.5 months to 2.5 months after the ultrasound (US) diagnosis by both Tc-99m diethylene triamine penta-acetic acid (DPTA) dynamic renal scanning and (99m)Tc-pertechnetate direct cystography. Clinical assessment, urine cultures and renal ultrasound follow-up were maintained for 2 years. The proportion of urinary tract infections (UTIs) in patients with ERpel was compared with that of the total neonatal and infantile population with normal US scans in the region of our hospital. Associated minor congenital malformations were found in 12 of 79 neonates (15.2%). Four had a family history of ERpel. Among 60 neonates who underwent renal scanning, 36 (60%) were found to have urinary retention in the collecting system. Another nine (15%) had vesico-ureteral (VU) reflux, of which seven had urinary retention. Fifteen (25%) showed normal isotope imaging. Urinary tract infection was diagnosed in 16 ERpel neonates in whom only one exhibited VU reflux (grade 2). The incidence of neonatal UTI in the ERpel group was more than that of either neonatal or infantile UTI in those with normal US scans in the local population (20.2% vs 1.2% and 4.3%, respectively). Fifty-three infants completed a 2-year follow-up. Repeat renal ultrasonography indicated that one infant (1.8%) had developed bilateral hydronephrosis, 12 (22.6%) had unchanged findings, 18 (40%) showed an improvement (decrease of ERpel width or resolution in one side) and, in 22 (41.5%) infants, the condition had resolved. No clinical or kidney function deterioration was observed. Seven patients (13.2%) each had one episode of UTI during the 2-year follow-up period none of them had VU reflux. Neonatal ERpel is more frequent in male infants. It is associated with greater rates of minor congenital malformations, VU reflux and UTI than in the general population of the same ages. The increased UTI incidence is not attributed to VU reflux.