Watchful waiting for prenatally detected ureteroceles. Ureteroceles are commonly detected by prenatal ultrasound. Although many require surgical intervention due to obstruction of more than one renal moiety or obstruction of the bladder neck, some may be carefully observed. The objective of this study was to assess the outcome of conservative management in select cases of prenatally detected ureteroceles at a tertiary care pediatric hospital.We retrospectively reviewed the charts of patients with ureteroceles detected on prenatal ultrasound who were treated nonsurgically between 1990 and 2001.A total of 10 cases were detected in the course of the chart review, with 6 involving duplex system and 4 involving single system ureteroceles. Median followup was 5 years (range 1 to 11). Patients were followed with routine ultrasound at 3 to 6-month intervals for the first 2 years, and at 6-month to 2-year intervals thereafter. Voiding cystourethrogram and renal scans or IVPs were performed initially in all patients. Those with vesicoureteral reflux were followed with annual or biennial cystogram until reflux resolution. Antibiotic prophylaxis was routinely prescribed for an average duration of 1.5 years. Initial ultrasound revealed unilateral hydronephrosis in all patients, with complete resolution in 6 during a mean followup of 2 years. Voiding cystourethrogram demonstrated vesicoureteral reflux of grade III or less in 4 patients. Reflux resolved in 2 of these patients during a mean followup of 3 years. No patient required surgical intervention within the time frame of this study.There may be a role for watchful waiting in select cases of prenatally detected ureteroceles. Cases involving obstruction of more than one renal moiety, bladder neck obstruction or high grade vesicoureteral reflux were not selected among the population we followed, and would likely require initial surgical management. Patients without these complicating features may be safely followed on suppressive antibiotics, as based on our experience many of the associated problems may resolve without surgical intervention.