Antenatal hydronephrosis as a predictor of postnatal outcome: a meta-analysis. Antenatal hydronephrosis is diagnosed in 1% to 5% of all pregnancies however, the antenatal and postnatal management of hydronephrosis varies widely. No previous studies define the risk of postnatal pathology in infants with antenatal hydronephrosis. Our objective was to review the current literature to determine whether the degree of antenatal hydronephrosis and related antenatal ultrasound findings are associated with postnatal outcome.We searched Medline (1966-2005), Embase (1991-2004), and the Cochrane Library databases for articles on antenatal hydronephrosis. We required studies to have subjects selected on the basis of documented measurements of antenatal hydronephrosis and followed to a postnatal diagnosis. We excluded case reports, review articles, and editorials. Two independent investigators extracted data.We screened 1645 citations, of which 17 studies met inclusion criteria. We created a data set of 1308 subjects. The risk of any postnatal pathology per degree of antenatal hydronephrosis was 11.9% for mild, 45.1% for moderate, and 88.3% for severe. There was a significant increase in risk per increasing degree of hydronephrosis. The risk of vesicoureteral reflux was similar for all degrees of antenatal hydronephrosis.The findings of this meta-analysis can potentially be used for prenatal counseling and may alter current postnatal management of children with antenatal hydronephrosis. Overall, children with any degree of antenatal hydronephrosis are at greater risk of postnatal pathology as compared with the normal population. Moderate and severe antenatal hydronephrosis have a significant risk of postnatal pathology, indicating that comprehensive postnatal diagnostic management should be performed. Mild antenatal hydronephrosis may carry a risk for postnatal pathology, but additional prospective studies are needed to determine the optimal management of these children. A well-defined prospective analysis is needed to further define the risk of pathology and the appropriate management protocols.