Congenital reflux nephropathy: a follow-up of 108 cases diagnosed perinatally. To determine: (i) the proportion of vesicoureteric reflux (VUR) associated with congenital renal damage and whether it can be severe enough to cause renal impairment from birth: (ii) to evaluate the distribution of males and females affected and (iii) to describe the course of congenital damage in the first years of life.A total of 108 children (76 male and 32 female, M:F 2.3:1), whose VUR was diagnosed before any infection, were followed from birth for a mean (range) of 4.3 (1-10) years. Renal damage was defined by serum creatinine concentration, creatinine clearance and renal imaging (ultrasonography and renal scintigraphy) performed within the first month of life and periodically thereafter.Of the 108 children, 58 had bilateral and 50 unilateral reflux (total number of refluxing units, 166). High-grade VUR (grade > or = 4) was found in 96 (58%) refluxing renal units (RRUs). Males had a prevalence of bilateral severe (> or = grade 4) reflux (M:F 5.2:1), while in those wit unilateral VUR, the M:F ration was 1.5:1. At birth, mild to moderate damage was present in 56 (36%) RRUs and only associated with VUR of grade > or = 3. Bilateral reflux of grade > or = 4 was associated with congenital moderate/severe renal failure in nine neonates (seven males). In infants with grade > or = 4 VUR who underwent surgical correction, VUR resolved in 92% of cases. In infants with VUR of grade > or = 4 followed medically, the reflux spontaneously resolved in 42% and ameliorated in 16% after 18 months. Serial renal scans during the follow-up showed no progression of renal damage.VUR diagnosed at birth on prenatal ultrasonography is associated with congenital damage, with males affected more often than females. The damage involves both kidneys in a consistent proportion and is an important cause of chronic renal impairment from birth. It does not progress in the first years of life if infections are prevented. It is suggested that males with this condition may constitute a major group at risk of developing chronic renal failure in later life.