Z-IQNP: a potential radioligand for SPECT imaging of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in Alzheimer's disease. The density of the M2 subtype of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChR) has been shown to be reduced in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). It is therefore of interest to develop a brain imaging method for diagnostic purposes. Z-(R,R)-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl alpha-hydroxy-alpha-(1-iodo1-propen-3-yl)-alpha-phenylacetat e (Z-IQNP) is a muscarinic antagonist with high affinity for the M2 subtype.The pharmacological characteristics and topographic distribution of radiolabelled Z-IQNP as a radioligand for the M2 mAChR subtype were examined in vitro and in vivo.Z-IQNP was labelled with 1251 and 123I. Autoradiography was performed on whole-hemisphere cryosections from human post mortem brains. SPECT was performed in a cynomolgus monkey.Autoradiography showed binding of [125I]Z-IQNP in all brain regions, which was inhibited by the non-selective muscarinic antagonist scopolamine. The addition of BIBN 99, a compound with high affinity for the M2 subtype, inhibited [125I]Z-IQNP binding particularly in the cerebellum, which has a high density of the M2 subtype. SPECT demonstrated high uptake of [123I]Z-IQNP in all brain regions. The binding was markedly reduced in all brain regions after pretreatment with the non-selective muscarinic antagonist dexetimide and also the M1 antagonist biperiden. Dexetimide markedly inhibited [123I]Z-IQNP binding in the cerebellum, which is consistent with a high density of M2-receptors in this region. The sigma receptor binding compound DuP 734 had no effect on Z-IQNP binding either in vitro or in vivo.This study indicates that radiolabelled Z-IQNP has high specificity for mAChR with higher affinity for the M2 than the M1 subtype and negligible affinity for sigma recognition sites both in vitro and in vivo. [123I]Z-IQNP should be useful for future SPECT studies in AD for examination of the density of M2 receptors particularly in the cerebellum.