Tomographic studies of myocardial perfusion normality with 99m Tc-Tetrofosmin. Spanish multicenter study. As a first phase in a nationwide multicenter study to obtain myocardial perfusion normality patterns, this work presents the study design and quality control methodology used to guarantee that the gammacameras fulfilled some minimum quality requirements. The following aspects were considered in the study design in order to guarantee the homogeneity and interchangeability of the results: creation and structure of the work group, data interchange system, data selection and acquisition, centralized archiving and processing, assessment system, study acceptance criteria and distribution of the results. To carry out the instrumental quality control, three phantom studies were established, one to control the rotation center, another to verify tomographic uniformity and a third to simulate the shape and orientation of the left ventricle. The three phantoms circulated through all of the 18 participating centers in this project, which corresponded to 19 gammacameras. Very strict guidelines had to be followed in the acquisition and processing of these phantom studies. If any camera and/or center did not fulfill the criteria established, it was advised of the problem detected in order to correct it. Once the defect was repaired, all the phantoms were sent again for verification. Uniformity of the rotation center was quantified by means of the eccentricity of a 360 degrees orbit, admitting up to a maximum of 10%. Tomographic uniformity was visually assessed, taking in account the number of slices with rings and their contrast and finally no artifacts could be present in the reconstructed study of the ventricle. The center of rotation was within limits in all the cameras except one case while the tomographic uniformity was incorrect in 6 cases. All the departments, except one, corrected the defects detected, and passed the acceptance test. The results made it possible to guarantee adequate homogeneity and instrumental quality in this multicenter study.