Respiratory symptoms and hamsters or other pets: a large-sized population survey in Saitama Prefecture. Keeping hamsters as pets has been increasing markedly. Clinical reports have suggested that hamster or other pet ownership is associated with respiratory symptoms. However, this association has not been fully investigated by population-based studies in Japan. The aim of the present study was to investigate the relationship between hamster ownership and respiratory symptoms by using a questionnaire.During the period of August 1 to 20, 2002, we conducted a cross-sectional survey in Saitama Prefecture, which has a total population of approximately 7 million. First, we selected, proportionally to the population size, 100 areas from 5 administration districts of Saitama Prefecture. From each area, 30 households were chosen: 15 living in detached houses and 15 living in other types of dwelling, such as apartment houses. In this way, 2 groups based on type of dwelling (detached house versus other types) could be studied. A lay away plan was carried out. For the survey, 2 questionnaires were developed. One was a questionnaire dealing with household conditions, including pet keeping. The other sought details regarding individual health and lifestyle conditions. The questionnaire dealing with respiratory symptoms asked "whether the respondents had experienced respiratory symptoms (wheezing and/or breathlessness and/or bad cough) in the last 12 months."The response rate was 78.9%. There were 7,395 respondents in 2,368 households. There was no association between either dog or cat ownership and respiratory symptoms. In contrast, hamsters kept in the home were positively associated with respiratory symptoms. In a multivariate logistic regression analysis, hamster ownership increased the odds ratio for respiratory symptoms (odds ratio: 1.57 95% confidence interval: 1.18-2.10).This large size population-survey indicated that hamster ownership is associated with respiratory symptoms.