Changes in myocardial Tc-99m-sestamibi uptake in asynergic territories during low-dose echo-dobutamine test. Recent data suggest that contractile reserve in dysfunctional but viable myocardium during low-dose dobutamine infusion might be elicited not only by a direct inotropic stimulation but also by an increase in coronary blood flow. Aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of low-dose dobutamine on myocardial perfusion and function in asynergic but viable myocardium.Nineteen patients with coronary artery disease and severe regional dysfunction were studied. Both regional ventricular function and myocardial perfusion were assessed at rest (PRE), during low-dose dobutamine (DOB) and, in twelve patients, after revascularization (POST). Regional ventricular function was evaluated with two-dimensional echocardiography using a score index ranging from 1 to 4. Myocardial perfusion was studied using Tc-99m-sestamibi Single Photon Emission Tomography (SPET) uptake defects were graded from 0 (normal) to 4 (absent uptake). For both evaluations the left ventricle was divided in 16 segments and two vascular territories were considered.Low-dose dobutamine elicited contractile reserve in 12 of 24 asynergic vascular territories (DOB+). Compared with PRE scintigraphy, DOB SPET showed perfusion improvement in 10/12 DOB+ and in 3/12 DOB- asynergic territories (p = 0.006). Mean uptake score decrease significantly in DOB+ (from PRE SPET 21.0 +/- 7.2 to DOB SPET 17.6 +/- 7.1 p = 0.0005) but not in DOB- (from SPET PRE 19.0 +/- 5.3 to SPET DOB 19.5 +/- 6.8, p = NS) abnormal territories. Fourteen asynergic territories underwent revascularization. Among them, 9 showed functional recovery after intervention (viable myocardium) and 5 showed no changes (fibrotic myocardium). A functional improvement under dobutamine was observed in 7 viable and in 1 fibrotic territories. Conversely, perfusion improved under dobutamine in 8 viable and in one fibrotic territory. After revascularization the perfusion defect score decreased significantly in viable territories (from PRE SPET 22.1 +/- 7.9 to POST SPET 13.3 +/- 6.6In asynergic myocardium contractile reserve elicited by low-dose dobutamine is associated in most cases with an improvement in Tc-99m-sestamibi uptake. This suggests a possible link between increased blood flow and functional improvement during dobutamine in viable myocardium.