Human biodistribution and dosimetry of the PET perfusion agent copper-62-PTSM. Copper-62-pyruvaldehyde bis(N4-methyl)thiosemicarbazone (PTSM) has been proposed as a generator-produced radiopharmaceutical for perfusion imaging using PET. Several clinical studies have demonstrated the ability of 62Cu-PTSM to quantitate myocardial and cerebral perfusion in humans. Because 62Cu-PTSM is generator-produced, it can be provided to clinical centers without cyclotron availability and, therefore, represents a cost-effective, practical PET perfusion tracer for clinical applications. To assess the safety, time-dependent biodistribution, and whole-body and organ-specific absorbed radiation dose estimates of this tracer, a Phase I study of 62Cu-PTSM was performed using whole-body imaging with PET in 10 healthy volunteers and with the radiopharmaceutical delivered by a compact modular generator unit.Five male and five female subjects underwent a series of clinical tests and head-to-midthigh, whole-body PET scans at three time points over 1 hr after intravenous injection of 62Cu-PTSM. Before injection of the tracer, PET transmission scans were performed and used to correct the emission data for attenuation. Final image data were expressed in units of mCi/cc. Using standard organ weights, the percent injected dose per organ was calculated. Biodistribution data were obtained at three different time points and from these data biological half-lives in different organs were determined for calculation of radiation absorbed dose estimates.The liver was seen as the critical organ receiving a dose of 0.0886 rad/mCi. This organ defined the maximum single injected dose at 56 mCi using the limit of 5 rads to a critical organ per study per year. The whole-body dose is 0.0111 rad/mCi, resulting in a 0.622 rad exposure with a maximum single injection dose. Only trace levels of activity were found in the urine, which suggests low levels of urinary excretion and bladder exposure. No significant clinical, electrocardiographic or laboratory abnormalities were seen after the injection of 62Cu-PTSM.Copper-62-PTSM is a clinically safe radiopharmaceutical with favorable dosimetry for human studies at injected doses significantly above those projected for use in clinical studies.