Involvement of lipid mediators on cytokine signaling and induction of secretory phospholipase A2 in immortalized astrocytes (DITNC). Our previous studies demonstrated the ability of proinflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta), to stimulate NFkappaB/DNA binding and synthesis of secretory phospholipase A2 (sPLA2) in immortalized astrocytes (DITNC). In this study, we examined possible involvement of lipid mediators in the cytokine action. Using [14C]serine to label sphingomyelin and ceramide in these cells, subsequent exposure of cells to cytokines did not result in alteration of sphingomyelin/ceramide ratio. Furthermore, neither exogenous sphingomyelinase nor cell-permeable ceramides could stimulate NFkappaB/DNA binding. On the other hand, C-2 ceramide (0.3 microM) as well as other lipid mediators, such as lysophosphatidylcholine and arachidonic acid, were able to elicit a small increase in sPLA2 and potentiate the induction of sPLA2 by TNF-alpha. When DITNC cells were prelabeled with [32P]Pi, an increase in labeled phosphatidic acid (PA) was observed on treatment of cells with IL-1beta (200 U/mL). However, despite the ability of phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) to stimulate phospholipase D (PLD) and synthesis of phosphatidylethanol (PEt) in these cells, PLD activity was not affected by IL-1beta. With the [32P]labeled cells, however, PA-phosphohydrolase inhibitors, such as chlorpromazine and propranolol, could elicit large increases in labeled PA, indicating active PA metabolism in these cells. Cytokines also caused an increase in levels of diacylglycerol (DG) in these cells, although the source of this lipid pool is presently not understood. Taken together, these results provide evidence for the participation of PA and DG in cytokine signaling activity. Furthermore, although cytokines did not cause the release of ceramide, lipid mediators, such as lysophospholipids, and AA could modulate cytokine-mediated induction of sPLA2 in astrocytes.