Office-based insertion of pressure equalization tubes: the role of laser-assisted tympanic membrane fenestration. To describe the role of the hand-held otoscope combined with a flashscanner CO2 laser, OtoLAM (ESC/Sharplan, Yokneam, Israel), for pressure equalization tube (PET) insertion in an office setting.Prospective, multisite, clinical cohort trial (Institutional Review Board approved informed consent) in the setting of pediatric otolaryngology outpatient departments at four tertiary care children's hospitals.Selected for the study were 54 patients (96 ears), ages 6 months to 23 years, who met standard indications for PET insertion using cold-knife myringotomy and tube insertion under general anesthesia. PETs were indicated for recurrent otitis media, chronic otitis media with effusion, and eustachian tube dysfunction-all unresponsive to medical therapy. Topical anesthesia was achieved with iontophoresis (n = 1) or topical anesthesia: 8% tetracaine on an Otowick (Xomed Surgical Products, Jacksonville, FL, catalogue No. 400141) against the tympanic membrane for 45 to 180 minutes (n = 53). Laser-assisted tympanic membrane fenestration was performed with the OtoLAM set at single pulse, 2.0- to 2.6-mm spot size, and between 3 and 18 W. Insertion of grommets was accomplished using the otomicroscope and an "alligator" microforceps. Restraints with papoose were used in 79% of children with a mean age of 34.4 months (SD = 60.9 mo). Clinical, parent/patient, and physician satisfaction and comparative cost impact outcomes are described.All ears but three (3%) underwent successful placement of a PET. Pain was described as "absent" in 39%, "present but tolerable" in 30%, and "severe" in 30% of children at the time of procedure 5 minutes after the procedure pain was described as "absent" in 75%, "present but tolerable" in 22%, and "severe" in 3%. Tube plugging (3 of 74 available earsThe data indicate excellent clinical effectiveness, reduced risk, and high parent and physician satisfaction. Strong incentives for physicians to use this technique are in all stakeholders' best interests. These incentives need to evolve as soon as possible for the more widespread acceptance of OtoLAM with PET insertion in an office setting for appropriately selected patients.