The utility of positron emission tomography for the diagnosis and staging of recurrent esophageal cancer. To study the utility of whole-body positron emission tomography with (18)F-fluoro-deoxy-D -glucose (FDG-PET) for the evaluation of recurrence after curative resection of cancer of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction.Forty-one patients with a clinical or radiologic suspicion of recurrent disease underwent conventional diagnostic work-up, including a spiral computed tomographic scan, an endoscopic ultrasound, and a dedicated whole-body FDG-PET. PET lesions were classified as equivocal or suspicious recurrence. The conventional diagnostic work-up and PET findings were correlated with pathology or with radiologic and clinical follow-up. Equivocal lesions were classified as positive.Forty recurrences were found in 33 patients. The lesions were perianastomotic (n = 9), regional (n = 12), and at distant sites (n = 19). For the diagnosis of a perianastomotic recurrence, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of FDG-PET were 100%, 57%, and 74%, versus 100%, 93%, and 96% for conventional diagnostic work-up, respectively (P = not significant). False-positive PET lesions were found in patients with a progressive anastomotic stenosis requiring repetitive endoscopic dilatation. For the diagnosis of regional and distant recurrences, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of PET were 94%, 82%, and 87%, versus 81% (P = not significant), 82% (P = not significant), and 81% (P =.0771) for conventional diagnostic work-up. All false-positive PET lesions (n = 4) had been reported as equivocal. On a patient base, PET provided additional information in 11 of 41 (27%) patients. A major impact on diagnosis was found in 5 patients with equivocal or negative findings on complete diagnostic work-up in whom PET provided a true-positive diagnosis. In 5 other patients the diagnosis was staged upward from localized to extended recurrent disease, and in 1 patient with an equivocal complete diagnostic work-up, PET correctly excluded malignancy.FDG-PET allows a highly sensitive diagnosis and accurate whole-body staging of symptomatic recurrent esophageal cancer. Further studies in asymptomatic patients are needed to assess the potential benefit on survival.