Delayed (18)F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography scan for differentiation between malignant and benign lesions in the pancreas. Positron emission tomography (PET) using (18)F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) has been used for the evaluation of various tumors, but accumulation in inflammatory lesions makes it a controversial modality. The aim of this study was to investigate the usefulness of delayed scanning in differentiation between malignant and benign lesions in the pancreas.Forty-seven patients with suspected pancreatic carcinoma were studied by FDG-PET. All patients received approximately 370 megabequerels of FDG after a transmission scan, and an emission scan was performed 1 hour and 2 hours later for all patients. A subset of 19 patients was also scanned at 3 hours postinjection. The standardized uptake value (SUV) was determined, and the retention index was calculated by dividing the increase in the SUV between 1 hour and 2 hours postinjection by the SUV at 1 hour postinjection.Of 27 malignant lesions, the SUVs of 22 lesions increased at 2 hours postinjection, whereas the FDG uptake in 17 of 20 benign lesions decreased. The SUVs at 3 hours postinjection were higher than those at 2 hours postinjection in 9 of 14 malignant lesions and in 2 of 5 benign lesions. Malignant lesions showed a higher retention index than benign lesions (mean +/- standard deviation: 12. 36 +/- 13.37 and -7.05 +/- 17.28, respectively P < 0.0001). Applying an SUV of 2.5 at 1 hour postinjection with the cut-off value for the differentiation between malignant and benign lesions caused one false negative result and seven false positive results, with a diagnostic accuracy of 83.0% (39 of 47 patients). However, combining the retention index with the SUV obtained at 2 hours postinjection provided a higher diagnostic accuracy (91.5%The current data suggest that delayed FDG-PET scanning at 2 hours postinjection may contribute to differentiation between malignant and benign lesions in the pancreas.