Be wary of methodology and biases in reading contraceptive failure rates. Dr. T. James Trussell of the Princeton University Office of Population Research maintains that both statistical methodology and built-in study bias can profoundly influence the contraceptive failure rates quoted in journal articles and patient package inserts.  He believes that the Pearl index, 1 of the 2 currently popular methodologies, should be abandoned, indicating that a number of biases are "built into" the Pearl index.  Consequently, it is difficult to interpret, and its results can vary, depending on the length of the study involved.  Trussell advised clinicians to remember that "Pearl index figures are not equal to the percentage of women who will become pregnant in the 1st year of use."  Instead of comparing against a standard of 100, as a percentage ranking does, the Pearl index divides the number of pregnancies by the number of women-months and multiplies that figure by 2000.  Another limitation of the Pearl index is that investigators who want to push a specific contraceptive method can, consciously or not, interpret the index figures to support their position.  Because woman-months make up the denominator of the equation, and it is "universally true that future rates decrease over time," the longer a study runs, says Trussell, the lower the contraceptive failure rate becomes.  Trussell fa ors the life-table method of calculation for its "unambiguous interpretation" and its added use in calculating continuation rates.  Yet, he warns that with any calculation method, sources of bias can still pose formidable problems in achieving accurate results.  He suggests clinicians look for "the big five" when interpreting failure rate data:  He suggests clinicians look for "the big five" when interpreting failure rate data:  sample composition bias, especially in work comparing failure rates of 2 contraceptive methods recall or response bias found in studies using survey or interview results