Effects of aging on brain perfusion and serotonin-2A receptor binding in the normal canine brain measured with single photon emission tomography. Normal aging is associated with a decrease in number and size of neurons, loss of synapses and neuronal branching and with a reduced functioning neurotransmitter systems, such as the serotonergic system. These structural and functional alterations have important impact on the behavioural, cognitive and affective status of the individual. With the introduction of functional brain imaging in veterinary medicine, the canine brain can be examined in vivo, evaluating changes in perfusion, metabolism and neurotransmitter systems. Since cognitive decline is recognised in the aging dog, it was our aim to investigate whether age related changes concerning cerebral perfusion and binding index of the selective 5-HT2A receptor ligand 123I-5-I-R91150 could be found in the canine brain. A group of twelve normal, aging dogs, older than 96 months, was compared to a normal reference group (n = 12), younger than 96 months. SPET images were obtained, using the radiopharmaceutical 99mTc-N,N''-1,2-ethylene-diylbis-L-cysteine diethylester dihydrochloride (99mTc-ECD) for evaluation of the regional perfusion and the selective radioligand 123I-5-I-R91150 for visualization of the 5-HT2A receptor. Regional decrease of cerebral blood-flow was noted in the fronto- and temporocortical area and in the subcortical region. Age was negatively correlated with perfusion in the left and right fronto-cortical region. The binding index of the neuroreceptor radioligand was decreased in the fronto-cortical region, with a significant negative correlation with age in the right fronto-cortical area. No correlation was found between alteration of perfusion and binding index of the receptor ligand, suggesting that age related perfusion differences do not influence the binding of this radioligand. These results suggest that age related effects should be considered in functional canine brain imaging.