Cardiac denervation occurs independent of orthostatic hypotension and impaired heart rate variability in Parkinson's disease. Patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) have impaired sympathetically mediated neurocirculatory innervation. Here we analyzed the correlation between cardiac (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) uptake, orthostatic hypotension and heart rate variability in treated patients with PD. Orthostatic hypotension (OH) as a hallmark of sympathetic neurocirculatory failure was found with a high prevalence in PD. PD is known to affect cardiac innervation, resulting in a suppressed heart rate variability and a postganglionic noradrenergic lesion. We measured continuous arterial blood pressure in rest and 70 degrees head-up tilt for at least 20 min, heart rate variability in the supine position, standing, deep respiration and Valsalva manoeuvre in 58 patients with PD (27 male, 31 female mean age 71 years, mean PD duration 5.1 years, Hoehn and Yahr 3.1+/-0.8). Sympathovagal balance was estimated by the low-frequency (LF: 0.04-0.15Hz) and high-frequency bands (HF: 0.15-0.4Hz) ratio in the analysis of heart rate variability in each condition. Myocardial adrenergic function was analyzed by imaging MIBG using the single-photon emission computed tomography technique. MIBG uptake expressed as heart-to-mediastinum ratio was reduced in all PD patients (H/M-ratio: 1.14+/-0.16). We found no correlation between myocardial MIBG uptake and sympathovagal balance, blood pressure or other autonomic findings. The LF/HF ratio in tilt-table testing was significantly more reduced in PD with OH than without OH (2.18 vs. 1.49, p=0.022). MIBG uptake did not differ. It is concluded that scintigraphy with MIBG appears to be a highly sensitive and useful tool to demonstrate sympathetic postganglionic cardiac nerve disturbances. Loss of sympathetic innervation of the heart seems to occur early and independent of orthostatic hypotension, baroreflex failure and impaired heart rate variability in PD.