Select corn coproducts from the ethanol industry and their potential as ingredients in pet foods. The objectives of this study were to determine the chemical composition and nutritive value of corn protein product 1 (CPP 1), corn protein product 2 (CPP 2), and corn fiber (CF), novel coproducts of the ethanol industry, and compare these feed ingredients with standard plant protein ingredients [soybean meal (SBM), distillers dried grains with solubles (DDGS), corn gluten meal (CGlM), and corn germ meal (CGeM)], and to compare CF sources (CF control 1 and control 2) with standard fiber sources (peanut hulls, Solka-Floc, and beet pulp) commonly used in pet foods. Corn fiber, CPP 1, and CPP 2 were produced at a pilot-scale modified dry-grind plant, with CPP 2 having a greater degree of purification than CPP 1. Crude protein values for CPP 2 and CPP 1 were 57.3 and 49.7%, respectively. Total dietary fiber concentration was 29% for CPP 2 and 23.5% for CPP 1. Acid-hydrolyzed fat and GE concentrations were similar for these ingredients. In a protein efficiency ratio assay, no differences (P > 0.05) in feed intake, BW gain, or CP intake were noted for CPP 2, CPP 1, or CGlM. However, feeding CPP 2 resulted in a greater (P < 0.05) G:F ratio and protein efficiency ratio than CPP 1 and CGlM. In a cecectomized rooster assay, CGlM had numerically the greatest standardized total AA, total essential AA, and total nonessential AA digestibilities, but they were not different (P > 0.05) from CPP 1 or SBM values. Corn germ meal resulted in the least values, but they were not different from those for DDGS and CPP 1. The greatest values for true nitrogen-corrected ME were obtained with CGlM, followed by CPP 2, DDGS, CPP 1, SBM, and CGeM. Distillers dried grains with solubles and CPP 1 had similar true nitrogen-corrected ME values, and they were not different from values for CPP 2 and SBM. In vitro CP disappearance was greatest (P < 0.05) for CGlM (94.1%), intermediate for DDGS (76.8%) and CPP 1 (77.5%), and least for CPP 2 (74.1%) and CGeM (67.7%). Corn fibers contained predominantly insoluble dietary fiber (1% or less of soluble dietary fiber), with a moderate CP concentration. In vitro OM disappearance for the fiber sources, when using inoculum from dog feces, revealed that with the exception of beet pulp, which had a moderate disappearance value after 16 h of fermentation (17.7%), all fiber substrates had a nonsignificant extent of fermentation. In conclusion, novel corn coproducts had properties comparable with the standard protein and fiber sources used in animal nutrition.