Future aspects of BMIPP. Iodinated fatty acid compounds have an important role in early detection of myocardial abnormalities and provide insights into pathological states in the heart. Among them, 15-(p-iodophenyl)-3R,S-methyl pentadecanoic acid (BMIPP) has been most widely used providing excellent images of the left ventricular myocardium due to high myocardial uptake and long retention. The previous chapters have focused on the basic characters and clinical applications of this compound. However, the precise mechanisms of myocardial kinetics should be further investigated under various conditions. Most of the studies showed reduced BMIPP uptake relative to perfusion in a variety of myocardial disorders, whereas an increase in BMIPP uptake relative to perfusion is often reported. The potential mechanisms of such conflicting results are discussed, but basic studies should be performed to clarify such results in detail. There are a number of clinical values of this compound. Since alteration of fatty acid is observed in the repetitive ischemia, BMIPP can be used for detecting severe ischemic episodes. The concept of 'ischemic memory' imaging can be applied for patients with unstable or vasospastic angina at rest and for those with acute myocardial infarction with successful revascularization to identify the risk area. The discordant decrease in BMIPP uptake relative to perfusion is often seen in ischemic but viable myocardium, and therefore, the combined imaging of BMIPP and perfusion can be used for assessment of tissue viability. Furthermore, abnormal BMIPP uptake is most often observed in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and thus, this compound can be used for an early detection and differential diagnosis of the cardiomyopathy. Although BMIPP imaging seems to be quite promising in many fields, the number of patient data remain limited. In this respect, a multicenter study with a vast majority of patients is warranted to confirm these important values of BMIPP. In addition, this attractive tracer should be available all over the world to confirm its clinical value in the near future.