Evaluation of phosphoinositide turnover on ischemic human brain with 1-[1-11C]-butyryl-2-palmitoyl-rac-glycerol using PET. It is important to evaluate cerebral function from neural signal transduction in ischemic brain in judging morbid state and prognosis. We synthesized 1-[1-(11)C]-butyryl-2-palmitoyl-rac-glycerol (DAG) for the purpose of imaging the second messenger on PET and applied it to clinical cases of cerebral infarction.Five patients, who had ischemic stroke, were examined with PET. [15O]-CO2 and [15O]-O2 inhalation methods were applied to cerebral blood flow (CBF), oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2). For the measurement of phosphoinositide turnover after intravenous injection of DAG, dynamic PET data were collected continuously for 46 min. Arterial blood samples were taken to evaluate changes in the serum concentration of DAG. To quantify the metabolic activity of inositol phospholipid, the incorporation constant k*(DAG) was calculated on the basis of the kinetics of DAG.The plasma concentration of DAG increased rapidly and peaked 30 s after injection of DAG solution. In the normal cortex, DAG concentration increased gradually and reached a plateau between 15 and 20 min after injection. In the ischemic core (infarction), DAG concentration increased slowly, and its peak concentration was lower than that in normal tissue. In comparison with blood flow and metabolic parameters, k*(DAG) showed the best correlation with CMRO2, suggesting a reflection of neuronal activity. Locally, CBF and CMRO2 gradually decreased from the normal area toward the ischemic center (infarction), whereas k*(DAG) and OEF significantly decreased only in the ischemic center.The k*(DAG) of ischemic brain, including that caused by infarction, significantly correlated with CMRO2, suggesting that metabolic activity of inositol phospholipid reflects neural viability. Maintained metabolic activity of inositol phospholipid in the region around the ischemic core indicated preservation of the signal transduction system through the metabotropic receptor.