Usefulness and pitfalls in myocardial perfusion SPECT for detecting and assessing coronary artery disease. Thallium-201(Tl) is the dominant agent employed for myocardial perfusion imaging for detection of coronary artery disease, assessment of myocardial viability and prognostication. Technetium-99m(Tc) labeled radionuclides have been used as excellent alternatives to Tl. This paper will review the usefulness and pitfall in myocardial perfusion single photon emission computed tomography(SPECT) in patients with coronary artery disease. From a practical standpoint, we should know what are clinical questions, clinical status of patients(history and exercise ability of patients, obesity) and diagnostic accuracy of each diagnostic protocol and the performance in the nuclear laboratory. Myocardial perfusion defects during stress SPECT are produced by a heterogeneity in coronary blood flow, which depends on severity of coronary stenosis and consequent abnormalities in flow reserve. Certain factors can affect sensitivity and specificity of Tl SPECT for detection of coronary artery disease. Accurate determination of myocardial viability is vitally important for clinical decision making for patients with left ventricular(LV) dysfunction who will most benefit from revascularization. Hibernated myocardium may result in profound regional LV dysfunction in absence of necrosis. The various approach such as stress-redistribution-reinjection imaging, rest-redistribution imaging and rest-redistribution 24 hours delayed imaging has been utilized to assess myocardial viability with Tl. Alternatively, quantitative assessment of 99mTc-methoxy-isobutyl isonitrile(MIBI) and tetrofosmin uptake reflect the degree of viability. At the present time one of the most important clinical applications of exercise myocardial perfusion SPECT is the assessment of prognosis for patients with suspected and documented coronary artery disease. Patients with normal stress perfusion SPECT have a low event rate and excellent prognosis. Stress perfusion imagings have been widely used to stratify patients into different risk groups in the United State.