Safety and feasibility of convection-enhanced delivery of Cotara for the treatment of malignant glioma: initial experience in 51 patients. We report the safety and feasibility of using convection-enhanced delivery to administer Cotara (Peregrine Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Tustin, CA), a novel radioimmunotherapeutic agent, to patients with malignant glioma.Between April 1998 and November 2002, 51 patients with histologically confirmed malignant glioma received Cotara by convection-enhanced delivery. Most patients (88%) were treated with Cotara targeting tumor volume-dependent, single or multiple administrations of activity ranging from 0.5 to 3.0 mCi/cm3 of baseline clinical target volume. Two weeks after infusion, single-photon emission computed tomographic imaging determined the spatial distribution of Cotara. Patients were followed for as long as 41 months (average follow-up, 5 mo). Safety was evaluated on the basis of incidence of procedure-related, neurological, and systemic adverse events. Feasibility was evaluated in a subset of patients on the basis of the correlation between the prescribed activity and the actual activity administered to the targeted region.Fifty-one patients, 37 with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme, 8 with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme, and 6 with recurrent anaplastic astrocytomas, were treated. Average tumor volume was 36 +/- 27.6 cm3 (range, 5-168 cm3). Of the 67 infusions, 13 (19%), 52 (78%), and 2 (3%) delivered less than 90%, 100 +/- 10%, and more than 110%, respectively, of the prescribed administered activity to the targeted region. Treatment-emergent, drug-related central nervous system adverse events included brain edema (16%), hemiparesis (14%), and headache (14%). Systemic adverse events were mild. Several patients had objective responses to Cotara.The majority of Cotara infusions delivered between 90 and 110% of the prescribed administered activity to the targeted region. This method of administration has an acceptable safety profile compared with literature reports of other therapeutics delivered by convection-enhanced delivery.