Small animal tumour imaging with MRI and the ECAT EXACT scanner: application of partial volume correction and comparison with microPET data. Partial volume effects caused by limited spatial resolution of conventional positron emission tomography (PET) scanners result in an underestimation of the activity concentration in small tumours. The aim of the study was to evaluate the feasibility of small animal tumour imaging with the clinical PET scanner ECAT EXACT after partial volume correction based on MRI calculations. The same tumour model was examined additionally with the small animal PET system, microPET focus 120.Before the ECAT EXACT studies recovery coefficients for different sphere volumes were generated with phantom experiments. For the following in-vivo study DS-sarcoma cells were implanted on both hind foot dorsum of male Sprague-Dawley rats. In-vivo tumour volume calculations were done with the high-resolution MRI system, Magnetom Vision Experimental. Dynamic F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET was performed with the scanner ECAT EXACT (5 MBq intravenous, two-dimensional mode, n = 16 tumours) or with the microPET focus 120 (20 MBq intravenous, two-dimensional mode, n = 10 tumours). The animals were then killed, the tumours rapidly explanted, weighed and homogenized. The concentration of F-FDG was measured with a gamma counter and decay corrected the ex-vivo F-FDG concentration was compared with the mean tumour activity concentration of the PET data.Using the ECAT EXACT mean underestimation of actual tumour F-FDG concentration was 35.4%, for partial volume-corrected data this error decreased to 1.7%. In addition, after partial volume correction congruence and linear correlation between the regions of interest-based activity concentration and ex-vivo measurements were excellent (r = 0.98). These results were quite similar to the microPET experiments without partial volume correction: r = 0.99.These data indicate that partial volume correction might allow use of the clinical PET system, ECAT EXACT, for the metabolic assessment of small animal tumours >/=10 mm with sufficient accuracy if no dedicated animal PET is available.