Myocardial indium-111 antimyosin uptake in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy: its relation to haemodynamics, histomorphometry, myocardial enteroviral infection, and clinical course. The myocardial uptake of indium-111 antimyosin indicates the presence of ongoing myocyte damage. To evaluate the role of this finding in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC), 36 patients were studied by planar and SPECT antimyosin imaging. The diagnosis of IDC was based on coronary angiography and left ventricular endomyocardial biopsy. The antimyosin scan was evaluated qualitatively from SPECT images and assessed quantitatively by a count density index (CDI) which measured the tracer activity over the heart relative to the lung and sternal region (normal value less than 1.20). Group 1 consisted of 13 patients (36%) with an increased myocardial antimyosin uptake, while 23 patients had a normal antimyosin scan (group 2). Clinical data, pulmonary artery pressures, gated blood pool ejection fraction and histomorphometry of endomyocardial biopsies were similar in both groups. During a follow-up of 21 +/- 12 months there were two cardiac deaths in group 1 and 10 deaths in group 2 (P = 0.12). The 2-year survival rate was 81% and 59%, respectively. During follow-up, there was no significant change in haemodynamic parameters in either group, but there was a slight improvement in functional NYHA class in group 1 (P < 0.05). No association was found between the presence of myocardial enterovirus infection, determined in 17 patients by in situ hybridization and the antimyosin scan (P = 0.5 g). Myocardial antimyosin uptake was found in a high percentage of patients with IDC, indicating ongoing myocyte damage. This finding was not related to any clinical, haemodynamic, morphological parameter, or enterovirus infection. Myocyte damage is a distinct feature in a subgroup of patients with IDC unrelated to any known causes of myocellular destruction. This subgroup showed a trend towards a more favourable clinical outcome.