Myocardial rubidium-82 tissue kinetics assessed by dynamic positron emission tomography as a marker of myocardial cell membrane integrity and viability. Recent reports have demonstrated the clinical use of rubidium-82 chloride (Rb-82) in combination with positron emission tomography (PET) not only as a tracer of myocardial blood flow but also as a marker of cell membrane integrity using static imaging early and late after tracer injection. The purpose of this study was to compare myocardial Rb-82 kinetics assessed by dynamic PET imaging as a marker for tissue viability with regional fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake in patients with coronary artery disease.Twenty-seven patients with angiographically proven coronary artery disease and 5 subjects with a low likelihood for coronary artery disease underwent dynamic PET imaging under resting conditions using Rb-82 and FDG. Both image sequences served as input data for a semiautomated regional analysis program. This program generated polar maps representing Rb-82 tissue half-life and FDG utilization assessed by Patlak's approach. Myocardial tissue viability was visually determined from static Rb-82 and FDG images. Regions were categorized as normal, ischemically compromised, and scar tissue. Their coordinates were subsequently copied to the functional polar maps for further analyses. In normal subjects, Rb-82 tissue half-life was homogeneous throughout the left ventricle (90 +/- 11 seconds). In coronary patients, differences between Rb-82 tissue half-lives in normal and scar tissue were highly significant (95 +/- 10 and 57 +/- 15 seconds, respectively P < .0001). FDG uptake in these two tissue groups was 78 +/- 12% and 40 +/- 13%, respectively (P < .0001). Ischemically compromised tissue with reduced perfusion but maintained FDG uptake displayed an Rb-82 half-life of 75 +/- 9 seconds, indicating active cellular tracer retention, which was significantly different from scar tissue. Overall agreement of tissue categorization as either viable or scar was 86% between Rb-82 kinetics and FDG utilization. In a subgroup of 11 patients with all three tissue types within one image set, Rb-82 tissue half-life discriminated between normal, ischemic, and scar tissue (97 +/- 9, 75 +/- 9, and 60 +/- 15 seconds, respectivelyThis study demonstrated a significant relationship between cell membrane integrity as assessed by dynamic Rb-82 PET imaging and myocardial glucose utilization as a marker for tissue viability. In regions with reduced perfusion, Rb-82 kinetics was different in compromised but metabolically active and irreversibly injured myocardium. The predictive value of this approach must be evaluated in follow-up studies.