HACCP approach to ensure the safety and quality of food packaging. EC Directive 93/43/EEC of 14 June 1993 on the hygiene of foodstuffs has been implemented in the Netherlands through the Food and Commodity Act (Warenwet) of 14 December 1995. This Directive requires food companies to identify steps in their activities that are critical to ensuring food safety, and to ensure that adequate safety procedures are identified, implemented, maintained and reviewed based on the principles of the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) system. HACCP is a tool used to assess hazards, estimate risks and establish specific control measures that emphasize prevention and control rather than reliance on end-product testing. Increasing public awareness of food safety, together with the introduction of this new legislation, has led producers and retailers of food to demand higher standards from their suppliers. Suppliers of raw materials, ingredients and also food packaging will be expected to bring their standards of hygiene in line with the expectations of the food industry. Food producers will need to obtain the guarantee from their suppliers that the packaging does not negatively influence their products. HACCP is a method that can also be applied to ensure the safety and other quality aspects of all kinds of food packaging materials such as films, foils, trays, cups, boxes and tubs made of paper, cardboard, polymers, metal and other materials (single use or disposable packagings as well as re-usable and recycled packagings). At the Netherlands Organization for Applied Scientific Research (TNO), the quality and safety aspects of re-use of food packaging, and refillable bottles in particular, have been the subject of extensive investigations in the project 'Quality monitoring of synthetic refillable bottles'. In this paper the set-up of the project and the Codes of Practice for refillable bottles are described. Moreover, the applicability of HACCP to food packagings and an example of a HACCP study for refillable PET bottles will be discussed.