Regional cerebral blood flow in late-onset schizophrenia: a SPECT study using 99mTc-HMPAO. Functional neuroimaging studies have been performed in many young patients with schizophrenia, but late-onset schizophrenia (LOS) remains largely unexamined by these techniques. We predicted that LOS would demonstrate regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) abnormalities similar to those seen in early-onset schizophrenia (EOS), but with a basis in demonstrable coarse brain disease. The subjects were 15 LOS and 7 EOS patients and 27 healthy controls. Each was given a detailed clinical and neuropsychological assessment and underwent MRI and Tc99m-HMPAO single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scans. The LOS subjects had a significantly lower cerebral hemispheric perfusion than controls, with a lower perfusion in the frontal and temporal lobes bilaterally. The LOS group also had significantly lower left-to-right hemisphere blood flow ratios. EOS subjects had a lower frontal perfusion than the controls, which was significant in the left frontal region. The temporal perfusion in the EOS subjects was greater than in the LOS group, and not different from the control subjects. Left temporal perfusion was the most discriminating variable between LOS and control subjects on logistic regression. Correlations of perfusion with MRI were generally low with the exception that the asymmetry indices were significantly correlated, and basal ganglia perfusion correlated with basal ganglia hyperintensities on MRI. The total cerebral perfusion index correlated significantly with the mini-mental state examination (MMSE) score, and the temporal lobe perfusion correlated with MMSE scores and some verbal memory measures. In the schizophrenic groups, perfusion correlated nonsignificantly with symptom profiles. We conclude that our findings of temporal and frontal rCBF abnormalities, especially on the left side, in LOS are similar to those reported in schizophrenia in general. The results do not provide evidence for coarse brain disease underlying the rCBF abnormalities in LOS, or support the specificity of these abnormalities for particular subsyndromes of schizophrenia.