Mean regional cerebral blood flow images of normal subjects using technetium-99m-HMPAO by automated image registration. The purpose of this study was twofold: to calculate relative uptake values for 99mTc-HMPAO in various regions of the normal brain after alignment and registration to a standard shape and size, and to validate the automated image registration (AIR) program for SPECT-to-SPECT transformation.Thirty subjects took part in this study. Technetium-99m-HMPAO brain SPECT and x-ray-CT scans were acquired. SPECT images were normalized to an average activity of 100 counts/pixel. Intersubject accuracy was evaluated on brain images of 17 normal subjects (mean age = 64.9 +/- 8.7 yr). These images were aligned and registered to a standard size and shape with the help of AIR. Realigned images were overlaid on reference images to determine the overlap areas. Intrasubject accuracy was evaluated by realigning 20 degree rotated brain images with an index calculated as: overlap area/(overlap area + nonoverlap area). Anatomical variability between realigned target and reference images was evaluated by measurements on corresponding x-ray-CT scans, realigned using transformations that were established by the SPECT images. Realigned brain SPECT images of 30 normal subjects (mean age = 50.7 +/- 18.7 yr), including those subjects examined in the accuracy validation study, were used to generate mean and s.d. images. Images based on the mean value of each voxel (n = 30) were compared with other mean images prepared by the human brain atlas (HBA) standardization technique on a voxel-by-voxel basis to generate T maps.Accuracy indices were 0.98 +/- 0.006 and 0.99 +/- 0.002 for the intersubject and intrasubject evaluations, respectively. The maximum anatomical variability was 4.7 mm after realignment. Paired Student's t-test comparisons of mean HBA and AIR images revealed statistically significant differences for the deep white matter, pons and occipito-temporal regions. These differences could be explained by variation in the population being studied and the protocol for data handling by AIR and HBA.AIR aligns and registers brain SPECT images with acceptable accuracy, without the necessity of MRI or x-ray-CT scans.