Are 18fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging useful in the prediction of relapse in lymphoma residual masses? Treatment of both Hodgkin's disease (HD) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) frequently results in a residual mass visible radiologically. Such patients may receive radiotherapy unnecessarily because the residual mass may represent benign fibrotic tissue rather than residual active lymphoma. Radiotherapy has been shown to have significant short and more worrying long-term toxicity. Refining the criteria for its use would be a major advance. A number of clinical investigations have been evaluated to more accurately determine the nature of such lesions, including erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and high-dose gallium-67 scanning (HDGS) but none has proven utility. 18[F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) is an imaging technique that has been shown to be useful in distinguishing fibrosis from residual active disease in solid tumours. The aim of this study was to compare FDG PET and MRI in the assessment of residual masses following treatment for lymphoma. Patients with NHL/HD who had a residual mass following chemotherapy were eligible for this study. Patients had a combination of MRI and/or PET. All scans were completed within 5 months of the end of treatment. Patients were followed-up for relapse. 56 patients had an MRI scan, 24 had a PET scan and 22 patients had both investigations. Overall sensitivity and specificity, respectively, were for MRI 45% and 74%, PET 50% and 69%, and PET/MRI concurring 50% and 67%. There was a trend for improved relapse-free survival (RFS) with a negative result of both MRI and PET, but this was not statistically significant. The predictive value for both tests failed to reach statistical significance. Subgroup analysis suggests that PET may be better at predicting relapse in patients with NHL, especially those with masses above the diaphragm. There is no convincing evidence that either MRI or PET or the combination can reliably predict relapse within residual masses after treatment for lymphoma. A negative PET scan however appears to be more informative than a positive result and may well aid clinical decision making. There are a number of factors that may produce false-positive results, including post-treatment inflammatory changes, the sensitivity of the test in the setting of minimal residual disease and the heterogeneity of the histological subtypes studied. A negative PET (or MRI) result in lymphoma residual masses following therapy may negate the necessity for further therapy such as chemotherapy or radiotherapy and their concomitant toxicities.