A report on the incidence of intestinal 99mTc-methylene diphosphonate uptake of bone scans and a review of the literature. In addition to well-known specific conditions for soft-tissue uptake of bone-seeking radiotracers, there is a limited number of reports on intestinal uptake of (99m)Tc-methylene diphosphonate ((99m)Tc-MDP) on bone scans.To describe the incidence of intestinal accumulation of (99m)Tc-MDP on bone scans in adult patients, define the patterns of this unusual finding and review the literature on its causes.Two thousand, one hundred and forty-four consecutive patients have been evaluated for intestinal (99m)Tc-MDP uptake on bone scans. Intestinal uptake was observed visually 3-4 h after the administration of the radiopharmaceutical. A whole-body bone scan and various spot views of the abdomino-pelvic region were obtained with a dual-headed gamma camera to evaluate the intestinal uptake. Delayed scans were also obtained as well as co-relative imaging and/or colonoscopic studies in some of intestinal uptake patients. Six patients had delayed scans of the abdomino-pelvic region. Fourteen patients had comparable scans either a year before or a year later. The positive intestinal uptake scans were further grouped according to the localization and intensity (mild uptake: lower than iliac bone moderate uptake: equal to iliac boneTwenty-two (17 female, five male) patients out of 2144 with a mean age of 57 years showed intestinal (99m)Tc-MDP uptake. The localization was mainly (20/22) in the right abdomino-pelvic region projecting on and in the configuration of ascending colon while one patient showed intestinal uptake all over the abdomen and one displayed diffuse intestinal radioactivity in his right hemithorax. The majority of the cases showed moderate to intense intestinal uptake (18/22). Six patients showed a decrease, disappearance or alteration in the intestinal uptake on the delayed images. Re-evaluation bone scans in five patients 1 year later showed no intestinal uptake this time. Among nine patients with prior bone scans 1 year before, intestinal uptake was negative in seven at that time. No significant pathology was obtained on the correlative images.(99m)Tc-MDP uptake can be observed in the intestines in 1% of bone scans with a prominent localization in the ascending colon and rarely all over the intestines or in thorax due to Chilaiditi's syndrome, as well. The mechanism of intestinal uptake is still unclear in some of the patients. Delayed imaging, additional spot views and SPECT studies help in the differentiation of this finding from possible misinterpretation. Intestinal (99m)Tc-MDP uptake on bone scan could be an intermittent process and should be included among other well-known reasons of soft-tissue uptake.