Expression of duck lens delta-crystallin cDNAs in yeast and bacterial hosts. Delta 2-crystallin is an active argininosuccinate lyase. The major soluble protein in the lenses of most birds and reptiles is delta-crystallin. In chickens and ducks the delta-crystallin gene has duplicated, and in the duck both genes contribute to the protein in the lens, while in the chicken lens there is a great preponderance of the delta 1 gene product. Purified delta-crystallin has previously been shown to possess the enzymatic activity of argininosuccinate lyase. In order to determine the enzymatic properties of the two duck delta-crystallins their corresponding cDNA molecules were placed in yeast and bacterial expression plasmids. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the activity of each crystallin was assessed by transformation of the expression plasmids into a strain deficient for argininosuccinate lyase activity. The ability of the resulting yeast to grow on arginine deficient medium was used as a measure of enzymatic activity. Yeast expressing the duck delta 2-crystallin protein grew rapidly, while those expressing delta 1-crystallin failed to grow. Enzyme activity measurements confirmed the presence of activity in the delta 2-crystallin-expressing yeast, and no detectable activity could be demonstrated in the delta 1-crystallin-expressing yeast. Northern blotting of RNA from the transformed yeast revealed equal levels of mRNA species from the two constructs. For further analysis, the delta 2-crystallin cDNA was placed in the bacterial expression plasmid, pET-3d. The delta 2-crystallin protein produced in Escherichia coli was purified to homogeneity and analyzed to determine the kinetic properties. A Km of 0.35 mM was determined for argininosuccinate and a Vm of 3.5 mumols/min/mg was determined. These data demonstrate that, following duplication of the primordial argininosuccinate lyase gene, one of the genes maintained its role as an enzyme (delta 2-crystallin) while also serving as a crystallin and the other has evolved to specialize as a structural protein in the lens (delta 1-crystallin), presumably losing most or all of its catalytic capacity.