Orbital involvement in craniofacial brown tumors. To describe the clinical and radiologic features of orbital involvement in craniofacial brown tumors and to compare the rate of brown tumors in primary and secondary hyperparathyroidism.A retrospective hospital-based study of 115 patients with chronic kidney disease and secondary hyperparathyroidism and 34 with primary hyperparathyroidism was conducted. Laboratory results such as serum levels of alkaline phosphatase, calcium, phosphorus, and parathyroid hormone were recorded. Demographic data (age, sex, duration of disease) and image findings (bone scan scintigraphy, skull and long bone x-rays, CT) were also obtained. The main outcome measures were analysis of clinical, biochemical, and radiologic findings of all patients.Of the 115 patients with chronic kidney disease, 10 (8.7%) had brown tumors in different bones of the skeleton. Five patients had lesions in the craniofacial bones. The maxilla, mandible, maxillary sinus, and nasal cavity were the most affected sites. The orbit was involved in 2 patients with lesions arising in the maxillary and ethmoid sinuses. One patient had facial leontiasis. All patients with brown tumors had extremely high levels of parathyroid hormone (>1,000 pg/ml, normal values 10-69 pg/ml) and alkaline phosphatase (>400 U/l, normal values 65-300 U/l). The mean serum levels of phosphorus and calcium were not abnormal among the patients with brown tumors. Age and time of renal failure were similar for patients with and without brown tumors. Among the patients with primary hyperparathyroidism, only 2 (5.8%) had brown tumors, and in just 1, the lesion was localized in the craniofacial skeleton. A 2-tailed Z test applied to compare the proportion of occurrence of brown tumors in the 2 groups revealed that the difference at the 90% of confidence level was not significant.Brown tumors are equally found in secondary and primary hyperparathyroidism. Craniofacial brown tumors involve the orbit, usually because of the osteodystrophy process that involves the maxilla and paranasal sinuses. The lesions do not necessarily need to be excised and may regress spontaneously after the control of hyperparathyroidism.