Hemodynamic study of internal carotid artery stenosis and occlusion: value of combined isotopic measurements of regional cerebral blood flow and blood volume. The assessment of the intracranial hemodynamic consequences of obstructive lesions of the carotid artery by measuring resting rCBF is inadequate because cerebral blood flow may remain constant in spite of significant drops in the intraluminal pressure due to autoregulation. Moreover, flow may be permanently decreased following cerebral infarction, even if the arterial anatomical conditions have resumed their normal state because of the decreased metabolic demand of an infarcted area. Measurement of the regional cerebral blood volume (rCBV) helps with the hemodynamic assessment of these conditions, since there is a linear and inverse relationship between intraarterial pressure and intracranial blood volume. In 24 patients exhibiting various carotid and ischemic brain lesions we studied both rCBF and rCBV. The latter is a comparative measure between hemispheres obtained by single photon emission tomography after autotransfusion of 99m Technetium labeled erythrocytes. There was no correlation between rCBF and clinical status, CT scan or arterial lesions. There was no correlation between rCBV and clinical status or CT scan. There was, however, an interesting correlation between rCBV and the severity of the arterial lesion. The rCBV was symmetrical in all patients with normal or moderately stenotic carotid arteries before and after operation. In some patients with severe unilateral stenosis or occlusion, there was a significant relative increase of rCBV in the hemisphere downstream from the lesion, which disappeared after surgery (endarterectomy or extra-intracranial bypass). In some patients with severe and bilateral carotid lesions, we noted an asymmetry in rCBV that disappeared after a unilateral operation. Other patients with similar lesions develop asymmetry only after an operation that resulted in a relative increase in rCBV in the hemisphere supplied by the non-operated artery. In conclusion analysis of these results suggests that in this series of patients, rCBV modifications were the consequence of cerebral autoregulation distal to the arterial lesions and provided satisfactory assessment of hemodynamic improvement after surgical repair.