Evaluation of the clinical usefulness of super dynamic 99mTc-HM-PAO SPECT in ischemic cerebrovascular disease--detection of hypo- and hyperperfusion area. The purpose of this study is to assess the clinical usefulness of super dynamic SPECT of 99mTc-HM-PAO. Six patients with unilateral occlusion of middle cerebral artery (MCA) or internal carotid artery (ICA) in the chronic phase, and 5 patients with subacute cerebral infarction were studied. We used a ring-type SPECT "HEADTOME." Two types of collimator were used: a high sensitivity (HS) collimator for super dynamic scan and a high resolution (HR) collimator for static scan. First, the intravenous constant infusion of 99mTc-HM-PAO (925-1480 MBq) for 1 minute was started. After 30 seconds from the beginning of the injection, we performed the 12 seconds/frame super dynamic SPECT for 2 minutes. Then, the static SPECT for 10 minutes was done. For semiquantitative analyses, differential percentage of regional activity between affected and non-affected hemispheres was calculated in the 6th frame image of super dynamic SPECT and static SPECT image. In all 6 patients with unilateral occlusion of MCA and ICA, super dynamic SPECT images showed the better contrast of low perfusion areas in comparison with the static SPECT images. In 5 patients with subacute cerebral infarction who showed focal hyperactivities on static SPECT, focal hyperactivities (hyperperfusion or hyperemia) were displayed in 3 cases, whereas, focal hypo- or isoactivities (hypo- or isoperfusion) were shown in 2 cases on super dynamic SPECT. However, all patients with subacute cerebral infarction showed hyperfixation on static SPECT as compared with super dynamic SPECT. Although the image quality on super dynamic SPECT is not as high as that on static SPECT, cerebral hemodynamics would be detected with less backdiffusion of 99mTc-HM-PAO from the brain to blood, and with less accumulation of hydrophilic components in subacute infarct region. In conclusion, super dynamic SPECT in early distribution of 99mTc-HM-PAO using dedicated SPECT device might be helpful to detect cerebral perfusion close to true cerebral blood flow distribution.