Early detection of melanoma metastases with radioiodinated methylene blue. Melanin synthesised in melanoma cells presents a unique target to which the treatment can be selectively addressed, provided the pigment is recognised by a suitable drug. Methylene blue (MTB) possesses a high affinity for melanin and, therefore, accumulates preferentially in melanoma cells. Since not directly toxic to the tumour, MTB serves as a carrier for radioisotopes and, once taken up by melanoma cells, acts as a selectively localised source of radiation. Hence, radioderivatives of the compound can be used for both diagnosis and therapy of disseminated melanoma. Eleven patients with confirmed metastatic melanoma and one with a recent local recurrence were studied using radioiodinated (iodine-123 or iodine-131) MTB and a gamma camera. Biopsies of cutaneous lesions were taken to determine directly the compound uptake in tumours. This first clinical investigation concerning the diagnostic potential of radioiodinated MTB in patients with disseminated melanoma confirmed the existence of approximately 80% of internal lesions previously identified by routine methods and, additionally, enabled detection of unknown secondaries in 6 of 12 patients studied. There were no false-positive gamma camera images regardless of whether 123I or 131I was used. 131I proved to be more suitable than 123I for detecting melanoma metastases with radioiodinated MTB. Hazy images of the lesions treated with external beam radiation and/or some drugs suggest that initial radio- and chemotherapy might affect MTB uptake in melanoma metastases and reduce the clarity of the scintigrams obtained from a gamma camera. However, small, untreated internal lesions that cannot be visualised easily with the standard diagnostic methods are revealed with 131I-MTB regardless of their localisation. It is concluded that use of radioiodinated MTB in conjunction with gamma camera or positron emission tomographic imaging might prove to be a useful and accessible tool for the detection of early melanoma dissemination.