Large-scale functional connectivity in associative learning: interrelations of the rat auditory, visual, and limbic systems. Large-scale functional connectivity in associative learning: interrelations of the rat auditory, visual, and limbic systems. J. Neurophysiol. 80: 3148-3162, 1998. Functional relations between specialized parts of the brain may be important determinants of learned behaviors. To study this, we examined the interrelations of the auditory system with several extraauditory structures in two groups of rats having different behavioral histories. Both groups were trained to associate a tone conditional stimulus (CS) with an aversive unconditional stimulus (US). For one group, a light presented with the tone predicted the absence of the US (group TL-). In the other group, the light was a neutral stimulus (group TL0). Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) incorporation was measured in the presence of the tone-light compound. Because the tone-light compound was physically identical for both groups, neural differences between groups reflected differences in the learned associative properties of the stimuli. Covariances of FDG uptake in the auditory system and extraauditory structures were examined using partial least squares. Three strong covariance or functional connectivity patterns were identified. The first pattern mainly reflected similarities between groups, with strong interrelations between the subcortical auditory system and the thalamocortical visual system, cerebellum, deep cerebellar nuclei, and midline thalamus. This pattern of interactions may represent part of a common circuit for relaying the associative value of the tone CS to the cerebellum and the midline thalamus. The external nucleus of the inferior colliculus and medial division of the medial geniculate nucleus were associated more strongly with this pattern for group TL-, which was interpreted as representing the change of the associative value of the tone by the light, mediated through extraauditory influences on these two regions. A second pattern involved midbrain auditory regions, superior colliculus, zona incerta, and subiculum and was stronger for group TL0. The relations between midbrain structures may represent the excitatory conditioned response (CR) evoked by the tone in this group. The final pattern was strongest in group TL- and involved interrelations of the thalamocortical auditory system with hippocampus, basolateral amygdala, and hypothalamus. This pattern may represent the learned inhibition of the CR to the tone in the presence of the light. These findings are consistent with behavioral studies suggesting that at least two types of associations are formed during associative learning. One is the sensory relation of the stimuli and another is the relation between the CS and the affective components of the US. These behavioral associations are mapped to the patterns of functional connectivity between auditory and extraauditory regions.