An H(2) (15)O-PET study of cerebral blood flow changes during focal epileptic discharges induced by intracerebral electrical stimulation. Partial epileptic seizures are known to cause a focal increase in cerebral blood flow (CBF). However, quantified studies of ictal CBF changes under intracranial EEG control are still needed to assess the relationships in time and space between CBF changes and electrical discharges. Ten patients undergoing an intracerebral stereotaxic EEG (stereo-EEG) investigation for epilepsy surgery were prospectively studied for local perfusion changes. These were measured by H(2)(15)O-PET during 12 subclinical or mild symptomatic focal epileptic discharges induced by intracerebral electrical stimulation of the hippocampus (eight), amygdala (two), temporal pole (one) and fusiform gyrus (one). This study aimed to assess whether a significant focal blood flow change reflected the geographical extent of the underlying coincident epileptic discharge, as measured by this method at seizure onset. No significant CBF change was observed on test-retest at rest or during ineffective electrical stimulations outside the epileptogenic area. Compared with the resting condition, a significant focal perfusion increase of 16-55% occurred during eight discharges, there was no CBF change in three and a significant CBF decrease in one. Ictal CBF increases were mostly associated with low-voltage fast activity, but their magnitude had no obvious link with the duration of the discharge (range 8-106 s). Regional analysis of ictal PET was performed in 10 anatomical areas during each of the 12 discharges. Of all the 120 regions, 59 were not explored by intracerebral electrodes and 14 (24%) of these demonstrated ictal CBF changes. In 43 of the 61 regions explored by stereo-EEG (70.5%), PET and depth EEG findings converged, showing either a CBF change in a discharging area or no CBF change in a region unaffected by the discharge. Areas of increased CBF indicated an underlying epileptic discharge in almost 100% of the cases. Conversely, of the 18 regions showing discrepancies between intracerebral recordings and PET data, 17 were discharging regions showing no ictal CBF changes. Thus, a focal CBF increase, when detected at the seizure onset concomitantly with the initial low-voltage fast activity, was a reliable marker of an underlying epileptic discharge. It emphasizes the importance of injecting blood-flow tracers as soon as possible after detection of the discharge in routine clinical studies, even at a subclinical stage of the seizure. However, the extent of significant ictal CBF changes can be more restricted than that of the electrical discharge, thus limiting the reliability of ictal CBF images for outlining the contours of a tailored cortectomy.