Medicare program revisions to payment policies under the physician fee schedule for calendar year 2003 and inclusion of registered nurses in the personnel provision of the critical access hospital emergency services requirement for frontier areas and remote locations. Final rule with comment period. This final rule with comment period refines the resource-based practice expense relative value units (RVUs) and makes other changes to Medicare Part B payment policy. In addition, as required by statute, we are announcing the physician fee schedule update for CY 2003. The update to the physician fee schedule occurs as a result of a calculation methodology specified by law. That law required the Department to set annual updates based in part on estimates of several factors. Although subsequent after-the-fact data indicate that actual increases were different to some degree from earlier estimates, the law does not permit those estimates to be revised. A subsequent law required estimates to be revised for FY 2000 and beyond. Although we have exhaustively examined opportunities for a different interpretation of law that would allow us to correct the flaw in the formula administratively, current law does not permit such an interpretation. Accordingly, without Congressional action to address the current legal framework, the Department is compelled to announce herein a physician fee schedule update for CY 2003 of -4.4 percent. Because the Department would adopt a change in the formula that determines the physician update if the law permitted it, we have examined how proper adjustments to past data could result in a positive update. The Department believes that revisions of estimates used to establish the sustainable growth rates (SGR) for fiscal years (FY) 1998 and 1999 and Medicare volume performance standards (MVPS) for 1990-1996 would, under present calculations, result in a positive update. The Department intends to work closely with Congress to develop legislation that could permit a positive update, and hopes that such legislation can be passed before the negative update takes effect. Because the Department wishes to change the update promptly in the event that Congress provides the Department legal authority to do so, we are requesting comments regarding how physician fee schedule rates could and should be recalculated prospectively in the event that Congress provides the Department with legal authority to revise estimates used to establish the sustainable growth rates (SGR) and for 1998 and 1999 and the NVPS for 1990-1996. The other policy changes concern: the pricing of the technical component for positron emission tomography (PET) scans, Medicare qualifications for clinical nurse specialists, a process to add or delete services to the definition of telehealth, the definition for ZZZ global periods, global period for surface radiation, and an endoscopic base for urology codes. In addition, this rule updates the codes subject to physician self-referral prohibitions. We are expanding the definition of a screening fecal-occult blood test and are modifying our regulations to expand coverage for additional colorectal cancer screening tests through our national coverage determination process. We also make revisions to the sustainable growth rate, the anesthesia conversion factor, and the work values for some gastroenterologic services. We are making these changes to ensure that our payment systems are updated to reflect changes in medical practice and the relative value of services. This final rule also clarifies the enrollment of physical and occupational therapists as therapists in private practice and clarifies the policy regarding services and supplies incident to a physician's professional services. In addition, this final rule discusses physical and occupational therapy payment caps and makes technical changes to the definition of outpatient rehabilitation services. In addition, we are finalizing the calendar year (CY) 2002 interim RVUs and are issuing interim RVUs for new and revised procedure codes for calendar year (CY) 2003. As required by the statute, we are announcing that the physician fee schedule update for CY 2003 is -4.4 percent, the initial estimate of the sustainable growth rate for CY 2003 is 7.6 percent, and the conversion factor for CY 2003 is $34.5920. This final rule will also allow registered nurses (RNs) to provide emergency care in certain critical access hospitals (CAHs) in frontier areas (an area with fewer than six residents per square mile) or remote locations (locations designated in a State's rural health plan that we have approved.) This policy applies if the State, following consultation with the State Boards of Medicine and Nursing, and in accordance with State law, requests that RNs be included, along with a doctor of medicine or osteopathy, a physician's assistant, or a nurse practitioner with training or experience in emergency care, as personnel authorized to provide emergency services in CAHs in frontier areas or remote locations.