Reversible copper(II)/(I) electrochemical potential switching driven by visible light-induced coordinated ring rotation. We here describe the first metal complex system in which electronic signals can be repeatedly extracted by converting bistable states related to an intramolecular ligand rotational motion, which is fueled by visible light. The molecular structure for relating an electron transfer and a motion consists of a copper center and a coordinated unsymmetrically substituted pyrimidine derivative, whose rotational isomerization causes an electrochemical potential shift. To harness light energy effectively through metal-to-ligand charge transfer (MLCT) excitation, we prepared a simple copper(I) complex coordinated by a 4-methyl-2-(6'-methyl-2'-pyridyl)pyrimidine and a bulky diimine. The thermodynamic and kinetic parameters of redox and rotational reactions were analyzed by cyclic voltammograms at variable temperatures, by considering four stable isomers related to copper(II)/(I) states and rotational isomeric states. The key feature of this compound is that the rotation is frozen in the copper(I) state (rate constant for the rotation, k(Ii→o) = 10(-4) s(-1)) but is active in the copper(II) state (k(IIi→o) = 10(-1) s(-1)) at 203 K. The compound makes a bypass route to the isomeric metastable copper(I) state, via a tentative copper(II) state formed by photoelectron transfer (PET) in the presence of a redox mediator, decamethylferrocenium ion (DMFc(+)), or upon a partial oxidation of the complex. Light- and heat-driven rotation in the copper(I) state with a potential shift (ΔE°' = 0.14 V) was analyzed by electrochemical measurements of the complex in the solution state. The rotor could be reset to the initial state by heating, thereby completing the cycle and enabling repeated operation fueled by light energy. A significant redox potential shift associated with the copper(II)/(I) transition accompanied the rotation, thereby providing a new type of molecular signaling system.