MRI video diagnosis and surgical therapy of soft tissue trauma to the craniocervical junction. We evaluated objective diagnostic methods for patients with possible upper cervical spine instability caused by trauma and correlated them with subsequent neurosurgical findings and outcomes. Between November 1995 and May 1998, we investigated 420 patients with functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the craniocervical junction. We evaluated the extracranial vertebral circulation by MRI angiography, with focus on the position of the dens and on the subarachnoid space during entire rotational maneuvers. We documented 72 cases (17.1%) of injuries to the alar ligaments that were accompanied by signs of instability. Twenty patients (4.8%) had a complete alar ligament rupture, and 52 (12.4%) had an incomplete rupture with coexisting instability. We referred these patients to a neurosurgeon. Surgery was eventually chosen for 42 patients (10.0%) with the intention of obtaining dorsal occipitocervical stabilization. The duration of time between the MRI evaluation and surgery ranged from 1 week to 1.5 years (mean: 3.5 mo). After the fifth postoperative day, almost all symptoms had disappeared. One year following surgery, 34 of the 42 patients (80.9%) still demonstrated successful fusion and an alleviation of their sensation of instability. Twenty-five of these patients (59.5%)--all of whom were unemployed before surgery--were able to resume a professional activity. In the eight patients (19.0%) who still had a loss of stability during the second and 14th weeks, we noticed that there were some negative effects of rehabilitation. Six of these patients developed pseudarthrosis or osteolysis of their bone grafts during the first 3 months after fusion, and three required a repeat operation. We conclude that functional MRI with lateral tilting and rotatory evaluation is a useful tool for investigating craniocervical instability. For patients who are recalcitrant to following a program of conservative therapy, surgical stabilization of the craniocervical junction appears to be justified.