Anthropometrical analysis of cervical spine injuries. To date the principal focus of the mechanism of cervical spine fracture has been directed towards head/neck circumference and vertebral geometric dimensions. However the role of other measurements, including chest circumference and neck length, in a standard cervical fracture population has not yet been studied in detail. Cervical fractures often involve flexion/extension type mechanisms of injury, with the head and cervical spine flexing/extending, using the thorax as an end point of contact. Thus, the thorax may play an important role in neck injuries.We prospectively studied all patients with cervical spine fractures who were admitted to the National Spinal Injuries Unit from 1 July 2000 to 1 March 2001. Anthropometrical measurement of head circumference, neck circumference, chest circumference, and neck length were analysed. Ages ranged from 18 to 55 years, and all patients with concomitant cervical pathology were excluded from the study. Mechanism of injury involved flexion/extension type injuries in all cases those with direct axial loading were excluded. A control group of 40 patients (age 18-50 years) involved in high velocity trauma with associated long bone fractures, in whom cervical injury was suspected, but who were without any cervical fracture, or associated pathology, were similarly measured.Our analysis revealed a statistically significant increase in chest size in the male control group versus the male fracture group (97.89 cm versus 94.19 cm, P < 0.05, Student's t-test). There was a correspondingly significant increase in chest circumference between the female controls versus the female fracture group (92.33 cm versus 88.88 cm, P < 0.05, Student's t-test). Our results revealed no statistical difference in head circumference, neck circumference, or neck length between each of the groupings. These results indicate a proportionately larger chest may be a protective factor in cervical spine fractures.