Oesophageal perforation after anterior cervical surgery: management in four patients. Oesophageal perforation related to anterior cervical surgery is an uncommon but well recognised and potentially life-threatening complication with an incidence of 0-3.4%. Our experience with this complication and a review of the literature are presented.We retrospectively reviewed our clinical experience over 10 years and found four patients in whom an oesophageal perforation was recognised after anterior surgery for cervical spine trauma. In three patients the perforation was noticed in the early post-operative period and the other had a delayed presentation. In all patients, the hardware was removed, long-term intravenous antibiotics were administered and parenteral nutrition was instituted. In two patients a primary suture of the perforation was performed and in one of these an additional sternocleidomastoid myoplasty was carried out as well. One patient had conservative treatment and one died before closure of the perforation could be performed.The two patients, in whom surgical repair of the perforation was performed, recovered well with residual neurological deficits as expected due to the cervical trauma. In the patient in whom conservative treatment was instituted, healing of the perforation occurred. One patient died due to systemic complications, indirectly related to the perforation.Although not very frequent and sometimes difficult to diagnose, oesophageal perforations after anterior cervical surgery constitute a potentially life-threatening complication. Diagnosis is made by imaging or endoscopic studies, but clinical suspicion is most important. Basic treatment consists of surgery with removal of hardware, drainage of abscesses, primary closure of the perforation if possible, parenteral nutrition and antibiotic therapy. Residual instability should be recognised in time and may be anticipated in patients in whom there has been little time for solid bony fusion. Successful management depends on early diagnosis and immediate institution of treatment.