Management of traumatic sacral fractures: a retrospective case-series study and review of the literature. Being the result of high-energy trauma in most cases, traumatic sacral fractures are rare, difficult to recognise and frequently misdiagnosed. Furthermore they may lead to vascular injuries, mechanical instability, neurological impairment and increased morbidity. As a result, patients with traumatic sacral fractures may suffer major socio-economic consequences.This retrospective case-series study evaluated the functional, neurological, mental and emotional status of patients who had suffered traumatic sacral fractures and either followed conservative or underwent operative treatment at our department.We evaluated the clinical and radiographic results of all patients who had suffered traumatic sacral fractures between December 2003 and June 2007. The case-notes of all patients were reviewed, all co-existing injuries were registered and an ISS was calculated for each patient. At the latest follow-up visit, all patients completed the Short Form-36 questionnaire as well.Sixteen patients (eleven male, five female) were included in this study. At the time of initial admission, the mean age of the patients was 30 years (range: 14-53) and the mean ISS was 33.2 points (range: 21-59). The mean follow-up period was 24.1 months (range: 13-40). Six patients were treated operatively (four patients diagnosed with some type of neurological impairment at their initial physical examination and two patients due to pelvic instability). The mean ISS of the patients who were treated operatively was 41.1 points (range: 21-59), whereas of those who were treated conservatively was 28.5 points (range: 21-45). No patient had any neurological deficit at his/her latest re-evaluation. Patients who were treated conservatively achieved the best scores in every domain of the SF-36 questionnaire, when compared with those who were treated operatively.The diagnosis and management of sacral fractures may pose several dilemmas in everyday's clinical praxis. Patients suffering from traumatic sacral fractures who were treated conservatively seem to have better functional and mental/emotional outcomes, probably because their injuries were less severe than those of the patients who were treated conservatively.