C1-C2 posterior fusion in growing patients: long-term follow-up. A retrospective review of patients undergoing C1-C2 posterior fusion during childhood was undertaken.The aim of this study was to investigate the change in the sagittal curvature of the cervical spine in children after C1-C2 posterior fusion.There have been only a few reports on postoperative changes in the sagittal curvature of the cervical spine after C1-C2 posterior fusion in children. However, they have all described the onset of sagittal postoperative cervical deformities.Between January 1977 and December 1992, a total of 12 children underwent C1-C2 posterior fusion for atlantoaxial instability resulting from congenital malformation in eight, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis in one, and rotatory subluxation in three. The average age at the time of surgery was 10.9 years (range 7-12 years). All children underwent a similar treatment program with gradual preoperative reduction in halo cast, followed by C1-C2 posterior fusion with Mersilene loops in two cases, wiring in eight (Gallie's or Brooks' techniques), and interlaminar clamps in the remaining two. The halo cast made it possible to avoid a hyperextended or hyperflexed C1-C2 position while performing the atlantoaxial fusion, thus ensuring a more anatomic position during C1-C2 fusion. In the postoperative period, the halo cast was maintained for 7 to 9 weeks. RESULTS Follow-up ranged from 7 years to 13 years. Preoperative alignment of the cervical spine was classified into two groups: lordosis (eight patients) and straight (four patients). Postoperative subaxial malalignment (kyphosis) occurred in four cases (33%): these patients showed evidence of spontaneous and gradual sagittal improvement and presented either a straight (two cases) or a lordotic (two cases) cervical spine at follow-up. Immediately after surgery, the cervical spine was normally aligned in the remaining eight patients (lordosis and straight alignment in six and two cases, respectively) and was unchanged at follow-up. At follow-up, none of the 12 patients had a cervical deformity on sagittal plane.In children, a spontaneous realignment of the subaxial kyphosis observed after C1-C2 posterior fusion can be noted at follow-up, when a postoperative deformity occurs (33% in the present series). According to the present findings, it is not always mandatory to perform occipitocervical fusion in children with atlantoaxial instability just to prevent subaxial deformity in the cervical spine.