Posterior cervical lateral mass screw fixation: analysis of 1026 consecutive screws in 143 patients. This study evaluates the results and complications of 1026 consecutive lateral mass screws inserted in 143 patients by a single surgeon.Over a 50-month period, a total of 1026 lateral mass screws were placed in 143 patients ages 12-96 years (56 females and 87 males), with these records retrospectively reviewed. Screw position was evaluated by computed tomography (CT) scanning postoperatively, with screw positions assessed for facet, foraminal, or foramen transversarium violation.All screws were placed by a modification of the Anderson technique, but 20 screws were converted to Roy-Camille trajectories because of screw pullout. No patients experienced neural injury or vertebral artery injury as a result of screw placement. Three patients had screw pullouts using the Axis system, which did not require reoperation. Most patients had 14-mm screws placed. Postoperative CT scanning showed no compromise of the foramen transversarium or neural foramen. A total of 94 C7 lateral mass screws were placed without the need for pedicle screws at this level. Forty-four cases were performed with a screw/plate construct with the remainder performed using a polyaxial screw/rod construct. One patient had a symptomatic adjacent-level disc herniation that required surgical intervention. One patient required extension of laminectomy for residual compression.Lateral mass screw fixation is a safe and effective stabilization technique. This study demonstrates the safety and efficacy of lateral mass cannulation for a range of cervical pathologies with the largest reported series of consecutive lateral mass screws in the literature. In most cases of subaxial disease, nonconstrained plate/screw systems provide a reasonable alternative to polyaxial screw/rod constructs. Most patients can be fixated with 14-mm length x 3.5-mm diameter screws. The C7 lateral mass can be drilled with an adjusted trajectory.