The clinical features and surgical treatment strategies of cervical kyphosis. To analyze the clinical characteristics and the surgical treatment strategy of cervical kyphosis.From March 2006 to October 2009, 31 cases of cervical kyphosis were treated. According to the clinical features and imaging findings, different treatment methods were used. There were 9 patients in operation group, including 4 male and 5 female patients, aged from 17 to 72 years (average age of 35 years). Among them, 5 cases were idiopathic kyphosis and 4 cases were caused by laminectomy or other reasons. There were 22 patients in conservative treatment group, including 11 male and 11 female patients, aged from 14 to 40 years (average age of 29 years), who were all idiopathic cervical kyphosis. Before and 1 week after operation, clinical assessment were taken for the patients in operation group using Spinal Cord Injuries Classification Standard of American Spinal Injury Association (AISA). During the periodic review, the anteroposterior, normal sagittal films of cervical spine were taken. At 1 week and every 6 months after operation, MRI films were also taken. These films were studied to evaluate the effects of the operations. In the conservative group, assessment of treatment results by studying anteroposterior and normal lateral views of cervical spine were were taken every month. The clinical characteristics and the surgical treatment strategies of these patients were analyzed.In operation group, 9 cases were followed up for 6 to 18 months, all patients did not failed in internal fixation and fusion. AISA neurological score and neurological function significantly improved. Three days after operation the average Cobb angle was -1.29 째 (preoperative 54.24 째). In conservative group, the average Cobb angle was -5.41 째 (before treatment 11.20 째) 4 months after the treatment. The symptoms of neck shoulder and back pain disappeared, and all patients were followed up for 3 to 24 months, with no recurrence of symptoms.In the early period of cervical kyphosis, adopt postural therapy, plaster braces to correct an imbalance in cervical spine biomechanics can prevent deformity development. According to patients' clinical characteristics, choosing individual treatment programs can correct the severe cervical kyphosis and achieve good outcome.