Occipitocervical fusion with C1 laminectomy in children. Eight children in whom atlantoaxial dislocation had developed underwent occipitocervical fusion using a rectangular rod. The postoperative results are presented, and the postoperative growth and deformation of the cervical spine were determined radiographically.To investigate in a relatively long-term follow-up study whether occipitocervical fusion affects the growth of the cervical spine and induces spinal deformation.It has been reported that children who have undergone C1-C2 posterior fusion are likely to develop abnormal curvature or deformation of the cervical spine as a result of a disturbance of growth of the fused vertebrae. There have been no studies, however, to confirm that these changes occur after occipitocervical fusion in children.The subjects were one boy and seven girls who had undergone occipitocervical posterior fusion during childhood. The average age at the time of surgery was 8.3 years, and the average follow-up period was 5.9 years. The following were assessed radiographically: redislocation of the atlas, bone union, changes in the curvature of the cervical spine, the height and width of the vertebral bodies, and the anteroposterior diameter of the spinal canal.Solid bone union was achieved in all patients with maintenance of the reduced position at the time of surgery. None of the patients exhibited abnormal curvature of the cervical spine. The rate of increase in height of the C2 vertebral body was significantly less than that of vertebral bodies below C3. The rate of increase in width of the vertebral body and the anteroposterior diameter of the spinal canal of the C2 vertebral body and vertebral bodies below C3 did not differ significantly.Occipitocervical fusion with a rectangular rod is useful for treating atlantoaxial dislocation in children and yields excellent results because of the firm internal fixation it achieves. This surgery induced no apparent postoperative spinal deformations.