Airbags and children: a spectrum of C-spine injuries. Over 30 children who were improperly restrained or in rear facing safety seats have been reported killed in motor vehicle accidents (MVA) involving airbags. The authors report one minor and two major injuries in properly restrained children in the front passenger seat. In case 1, A 10-year-old seat-belted boy was involved in an MVA (40 km/h) with deployment of both airbags. Physical examination findings showed right hyphema with corneal abrasion, right cheek abrasion and minimal cervical tenderness. C-spine x-ray was normal. He was treated for whiplash and facial burns resulting from contact with hot gas released by the airbags and discharged. In case 2, a 4-year-old boy wearing a lapbelt was in a MVA (20 km/h) with airbag deployment. On arrival, his Glasgow coma score was 3 and he was hemodynamically unstable. Secondary survey after stabilization showed left neck abrasions and ecchymoses, quadraplegia, priapism, and absent rectal tone. C-spine x-ray showed atlanto-occipital dislocation with possible complete spinal cord transection at C1. Aggressive maneuvers were withheld, and the patient was pronounced dead. Autopsy findings confirmed the clinical diagnosis. In case 3, a 3-year-old boy in a forward-facing safety seat was in a MVA (60 km/h) with air bag deployment. The patient was fully awake. C-spine x-rays were normal. Because of fluctuating level of consciousness, he underwent head computed tomography (CT) scan, which demonstrated a posterior fossa subarachnoid hemorrhage and a hematoma posterior to the odontoid, suggesting a ligamentous tear. He remained asymptomatic and was discharged on day 6. A head CT scan at 1 month showed a periosteal reaction in the area of the alar ligament suggestive of partial ligamentous avulsion this injury was the forerunner of atlanto-occipital dislocation. Airbags deploy by releasing a hot effluent at 300 km/h. Mechanisms of injury include direct contact of hot gas with facial skin and energy transmitted directly from the airbag system to the child's head and neck. These cases illustrate a spectrum of C-spine injuries caused by airbag deployment and support the recommendation that children under 12 years of age travelling in a car equipped with dual airbags be seated in the back.