A phorbol ester tolerant (PET) variant of HL-60 promyelocytes. The promyelocytic leukaemia cell line HL-60 differentiates to a macrophage-like cell when exposed to the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA) and other agents which activate protein kinase C. To investigate this phenomenon we developed an HL-60 variant which does not differentiate when exposed to TPA. HL-60 cells were exposed to the mutagen ethyl methanesulphonate and were cloned in soft agar in the presence of a normally lethal concentration of TPA. One colony of cells that proliferated in TPA was obtained. The cells of this phorbol ester tolerant (PET) line have retained their resistance to TPA for several years without selective pressure. They are somewhat larger than their phorbol ester sensitive (S) parent, but they are otherwise morphologically similar. When PET-cells are exposed to TPA their growth is arrested for approximately 48 h. Thereafter, they resume their original rate of replication at all concentrations of TPA tested. S-cells undergo changes typical of HL-60 when exposed to TPA they aggregate, stop growing, adhere to the flask and die. The PET-cells appeared to be as sensitive as S-cells to other agents which differentiate HL-60 such as retinoic acid, dimethysulphoxide, and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, as determined by rate of proliferation in culture, Wright's stain, nitroblue tetrazolium reduction, and induction of the ectoenzyme NAD-glycohydrolase. TPA-induced protein phosphorylation was studied using one- and two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Several proteins increased their incorporation of 32P when S- and PET-cells were exposed to TPA, the most prominent of which were the two previously described nuclear matrix proteins of 80 kd and 33 kd. There was no difference in the protein phosphorylation pattern in S- and PET-cells, nor in how this pattern changed on TPA exposure. Fluorescent activated cell sorting and karyotypic analysis revealed PET-cells to be a hypotetraploid variant of S-cells, with approximately 80 chromosomes, including a marker chromosome iso(1p) not found in the S-cells. Identification of the biochemical lesion responsible for this TPA resistance in PET cells will provide clues concerning the mechanism of this important pathway for the induction of cell differentiation.