Differential accumulation of iodine-123-iodobenzamide in melanotic and amelanotic melanoma metastases in vivo. Iodine-123-iodobenzamide (IBZM) is a specific antagonist of dopamine D2 receptors and usually is used to study neuropsychiatric disorders. It also has a substantial affinity for malignant melanomas. This has been attributed to specific dopamine D2 receptor binding on melanoma cells because melanocytes and dopaminergic neurons share the same ectodermal origin and are both able to produce melanin. However, IBZM binding to melanoma metastases occurs predominantly 24 hr after injection, which is much later than maximal specific D2 receptor binding is expected. Furthermore, IBZM binding is not consistent in melanoma patients. This points to another mechanism of IBZM binding to melanoma cells. The aim of this study was to characterize IBZM-binding metastatic melanoma patients clinically and histologically to shed light on the nature of this mechanism.Twenty-one patients with proven or suspected metastases of a malignant melanoma entered this prospective study after surgical removal of the primary tumor. Whole-body scans, planar scintigrams and SPECT scans were performed 2-5 hr and 1 day after intravenous injection of 185 MBq IBZM.The suspected diagnosis of metastatic cancer was later confirmed in 17 patients by histology, clinical follow-up, x-ray, CT or other radiologic methods. Four patients were free of tumor tissue at the time of investigation and remained stable for 2 yr thereafter. Twelve of the 17 patients had a melanotic and 5 had an amelanotic subtype of the tumor. Iodine-123-IBZM accumulation occurred in the metastases of 10 of the 12 patients with melanotic melanoma and in 0 of the 5 patients with the amelanotic tumor type (p < 0.01 chi-square test). Furthermore, IBZM accumulation occurred in 0 of the 11 amelanotic metastases but in 20 of the 25 melanotic metastases (p < 0.001). The sensitivity is, thus, 83% for the detection of melanotic melanoma metastases on a patient basis and 80% on a lesion basis. Iodine-123-IBZM scintigraphy demonstrated one previously unknown metastasis. Six initially suspected lesions were not due to melanoma metastases and were IBZM-negative. No false-positive IBZM accumulations occurred in our patients.Iodine-123-IBZM binds to melanotic malignant melanomas with high specificity and moderate sensitivity but not to amelanotic melanomas. Our data suggest that the tracer does not bind to membrane dopamine receptors of the tumor but is built in or closely bound to intracellular melanin.