Monoclonal antibody SM047 as an immunohistochemical marker of ovarian adenocarcinoma. This study describes the generation of a monoclonal antibody designated SM047 which binds to an epitope that is displayed by a multivalent antigen associated with the glycocalyx of ovarian adenocarcinoma cells. The study also investigates SM047 staining in adenocarcinomas of diverse sites in order to determine whether the antibody is specific for ovarian adenocarcinoma and of value in the confirmation of an ovarian origin when the site of primary tumour is unknown.SM047, an IgM monoclonal antibody, was the product of hybridoma cells derived from fusion of SP2 myeloma cells with splenocytes of a mouse that had been immunized with a membrane preparation of tumour (ovarian serous cystadenocarcinoma) and boosted with cells from a cell line established from a similar tumour in a different patient. Sixty-two primary ovarian adenocarcinomas (28 serous, 23 mucinous, five endometrioid and six clear cell), 69 adenocarcinomas arising primary at other sites and 10 mesotheliomas were stained with SM047. There was positive membrane staining, which was usually strong and widespread, in 27 of 28 ovarian serous carcinomas and in all ovarian endometrioid and clear cell carcinomas. Most ovarian mucinous tumours were negative or exhibited weak cytoplasmic staining. Staining was variable in the other tumours but there was positive staining of most endometrial, endocervical and pancreatic adenocarcinomas. Most colonic adenocarcinomas were negative or exhibited weak cytoplasmic staining.SM047 is strongly expressed in most ovarian serous adenocarcinomas and in other female genital tract adenocarcinomas, with the exception of ovarian mucinous tumours. The antibody may be useful in confirming the ovarian origin of an adenocarcinoma when used as part of a larger panel. This is especially so in the distinction between a non-mucinous ovarian adenocarcinoma, which usually exhibits strong membranous staining, and a colonic adenocarcinoma which is usually negative or exhibits weak cytoplasmic staining. These findings need to be confirmed by further study of larger numbers of cases.