RU 486 research forges on, despite political hurdles. One year after US President Bill Clinton lifted the ban on importation of RU-486, there has been no increase in new research on RU-486 and no increase in the modest amount of RU-486 projects receiving federal support. One theory is that the stigma of RU-486 being an abortifacient carries over to nonabortion related uses. Political and economic pressures within Roussel (the only source of RU-486 and a major supplier of research funds) and its parent firm, Hoechst AG in Berlin, are responsible for the limited research on RU-486. The lack of federal funding on RU-486 may be because many persons perceive RU-486 to be a women's drug and women's diseases receive little federal funding. Nevertheless, some research of RU-486 in nonabortifacient use is occurring.  RU-486's ability to interact with progesterone receptors make it a candidate for treating diseases not related to reproductive function. RU-486 also has a strong antiglucocorticoid effect. A Colorado researcher receives funding from the National Cancer Institute (NCI) to examine whether RU-486 can treat breast cancer. A small clinical trial will soon be conducted in California where women with advanced breast cancer will be treated with RU-486. NCI is supporting a Phase III clinical trial of the effects of RU-486 on nonresectable meningiomas (which have many progesterone receptors). A California researcher has conducted several small clinical trials of RU-486's effect on endometriosis and on leiomyoma. The findings so far suggest that RU-486 demonstrates greater improvement with fewer side effects than other drugs. Findings of a clinical trial in Illinois suggest that RU-486 stimulates labor in women with dead fetuses. Some researchers at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development use RU-486 to treat some patients with a subtype of Cushing's syndrome. A clinical trial is examining whether RU-486 can improve memory in Alzheimer's disease patients.