Comparison of assessing the patency of the Fallopian tubes during laparoscopy and during hysterosalpingography on television in infertile women with endometriosis. Sterility become nowadays not only medical, but as well socio-economic problem. One of its major causes is endometriosis. Recurrent adnexitis--one of the most common symptoms of endometriosis might be the cause of fallopian tubes occlusion. The hysterosalpingography (HSG) can be helpful to diagnose this tubal pathology.To compare the assessment of fallopian tubes patency during HSG with the results of laparoscopy in infertile women with endometriosis.331 women with endometriosis who were diagnosed during laparoscopy examination between 1998-2002 due to sterility. The presence of endometriosis was confirmed during laparoscopy. In each patient the control of the patency of both fallopian tubes was performed. These data were confirmed with those from HSG performed during follicular phase on the television path. The absence of the contrast passage through fallopian tubes as well as the only trace contrast passage into abdominal cavity were classified as tubal obstruction.In patients during the HSG physiological uterine shape and size in 91.3%, the bicornis uterus in 6.6%, and the unicornis uterus in 2.1% were observed. During laparoscopy we diagnosed the physiological uterine shape and size in 88.8%, the bicornis uterus in 8.2%, and the unicornis uterus in 3.0%. The diagnostic compatibility of these both examinations was 90.6%. In HSG the correct anatomical course of both fallopian tubes without occlusions in 51.7%, the only unilateral patency in 36.7%, and bilateral occlusions in 11.6% were found. During laparoscopy we diagnosed the anatomical course of both fallopian tubes without occlusions in 36.7%, the only unilateral patency in 33.3%, and bilateral occlusions in 30.0%. The diagnostic compatibility of these both examinations was 49.6% for both fallopian tubes, and 34.2% for the only one fallopian tube. In 16.2% both results were incompatible.The incorrect contrast passage through the fallopian tubes and its increased pressure during HSG in women with the characteristic history and clinical symptoms can suggest endometriosis. In these cases laparoscopy is necessary as the additional examination in the diagnostics of fallopian tubes patency, but the only objective method in diagnosis of endometriosis.