Biotin-rich, optically clear nuclei express estrogen receptor-beta: tumors with morules may develop under the influence of estrogen and aberrant beta-catenin expression. Recent studies have indicated that aberrant beta-catenin expression may be a common denominator for the morular formation of tumors from various anatomic sites. The evidence for the influence of female sex hormones in the formation of morules has been circumstantial, most previous studies having failed to demonstrate female sex hormone receptors in the morular cells. We investigated a possible role of estrogen receptor (ER)-beta in the occurrence of tumors that form morules with biotin-rich optically clear nuclei (BROCN)(BROCN-family tumors) and its possible relationship with aberrant nuclear/cytoplasmic (N/C) beta-catenin expression. We immunostained 14 BROCN-family tumors, including 6 low-grade adenocarcinomas of the fetal lung type, 3 papillary thyroid carcinomas of cribriform-morular variant (CMV), 2 ovarian endometrioid tumors, 2 colonic adenocarcinomas, and 1 gallbladder adenoma, as well as 4 cases of endometrial tissue with BROCN during gestation, for ERbeta, ERalpha, progesterone receptor (PgR), beta-catenin, and, on a subset of cases, c-Fos and MIB-1 as well. BROCN in all 18 cases expressed ERbeta but not ERalpha or PgR. In the BROCN-family tumors, the morular cells and budding glandular cells expressed ERbeta in the cytoplasm and BROCN, which overlapped with the N/C expression pattern of beta-catenin. Beta-catenin showed only membranous expression in the endometrial glands during gestation. In CMV and ovarian endometrioid tumors, nuclear expression of ERalpha and PgR were observed in association with N/C beta-catenin expression only in the glandular component. C-Fos was also constantly and strongly expressed in BROCN in all cases examined. The MIB-1 labeling index was low in the morular area, ranging from 1% to 3%. The present study indicates that N/C co-localization of ERbeta and beta-catenin is a feature common to the morules with BROCN that appear in the BROCN-family tumors from various anatomic sites. Whether the estrogen-signaling pathway and the Wnt-signaling pathway have crosstalk, cooperating in the development of the BROCN-family tumors, awaits further study.