Expression of hepatocyte nuclear factor-1beta (HNF-1beta) in clear cell tumors and endometriosis of the ovary. Clear cell tumors of the ovary are frequently associated with ovarian endometriosis. Clinicopathologically, it has been suggested that clear cell tumors develop from endometriosis, but there has been little molecular evidence supporting this speculation. Microarray analysis revealed recently that hepatocyte nuclear factor-1beta (HNF-1beta) was significantly upregulated in clear cell carcinoma of the ovary. In the present study, we examined 30 clear cell tumors (26 malignant, three borderline, and one benign) and 40 endometriotic cysts to clarify if differentiation into the clear cell lineage already begins in ovarian endometriosis. All of the 30 clear cell tumors, including borderline and benign ones, showed immunohistochemical expression of HNF-1beta in the nucleus, while other types of ovarian epithelial tumors (endometrioid, serous, mucinous, and Brenner tumors) rarely expressed it. Among 30 clear cell tumors, 17 (56%) cases were associated with endometriosis, and endometriotic epithelium was identified in 12 cases. In nine of the 12 cases, distinct nuclear immunostaining for HNF-1beta was detected in the endometriotic epithelium, as well as in the clear cell tumor. HNF-1beta expression was observed either in atypical endometriosis (four cases), or in endometriosis of a reactive nature (five cases). Furthermore, 16 of 40 (40%) endometriotic cysts without a neoplasm also expressed HNF-1beta, and the expression was almost exclusively observed in the epithelium showing inflammatory atypia. Our results indicate that HNF-1beta is an excellent molecular marker for ovarian clear cell tumors, including benign, borderline and malignant lesions. Early differentiation into the clear cell lineage takes place in ovarian endometriosis, not only in atypical endometriosis, but also in endometriosis with degenerative and regenerative changes, and this is probably responsible for the frequent occurrence of clear cell carcinoma in ovarian endometriosis.