Quantitative and qualitative peritoneal immune profiles, T-cell apoptosis and oxidative stress-associated characteristics in women with minimal and mild endometriosis. To assess immunological variables, T-cell apoptosis and oxidative stress markers in the peripheral blood and peritoneal fluid of women with (WEN) and without (WWE) endometriosis.Observational and transverse case-control study.National Institute of Perinatology, Mexico City, Mexico.Peripheral blood and peritoneal fluid obtained from 30 WWE and 32 WEN.Blood was drawn before surgery and peritoneal fluid was collected during surgery but before any surgical procedure had been carried out. Flow cytometry, spectrophotometry, high-performance liquid chromatography and multiplex immunoassay analyses were performed. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES  Peripheral and peritoneal lymphocyte subpopulations (CD3(+), CD4(+) CD3(+), CD8(+) CD3(+), CD16(+) CD56(+), human leucocyte antigen-DR(+) CD3(+) and CD19(+)), intracellular CD4(+) CD3(+) and CD8(+) CD3(+) cytokine synthesis (interleukin-2 [IL-2] and interferon-γ [IFN-γ]), CD3(+) apoptosis, malondialdehyde and ascorbate concentrations and peritoneal cytokine concentrations.No differences were found in peripheral and peritoneal lymphocyte subsets between the groups. Peritoneal T lymphocytes from WEN produced less IL-2 and IFN-γ than those from WWE. Peritoneal malondialdehyde concentrations were higher and ascorbate concentrations were lower in WEN than in WWE. Higher peritoneal concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, tumour necrosis factor-α and IL-6) and chemokines (IL-10, IL-8, eotaxin, vascular endothelial growth factor, monocyte chemotactic protein-1 and regulated upon activation, normal T-cell expressed, and secreted) and lower concentrations of IFN-γ, IL-1 receptor antagonist and IL-15 were found in WEN. No statistical differences were found in IL-2, IL-4, IL-12 and IL-13 concentrations.The alterations observed in WEN were associated with a diminished peritoneal T helper type 1 immune response. Pro-inflammatory, chemotactic, angiogenic and oxidative stress markers were altered in the peritoneal milieu of WEN. These changes appeared to contribute to the peritoneal immune alterations found.