Efficacy observation on the combination of acupuncture and Chinese medication in prevention of the recurrence of endometriosis after laparoscopic surgery. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of acupuncture-moxibustion combined with modified Mojie tablet (see text) in the prevention of the recurrence of endometriosis (EMS) after laparoscopic surgery.After laparoscopic surgery, 120 cases of EMS were randomized into an acupuncture-moxibustion group, a western medication group, a Chinese medication group and a combined therapy of acupuncture-moxibustion and Chinese medication group (combined therapy group), 30 cases in each one. In the acupuncture-moxibustion group, acupuncture was applied at Xuehai (SP 10), Sanyinjiao (SP 6) and Guanyuan (CV 4) the isolated moxibustion with ginger was used at Guanyuan (CV 4), once a day, twice a week. In the western medication group, gestrinone was prescribed for oral administration, 2.5 mg, once a day, twice a week. In the Chinese medication group, the self-prepared Mojie tablet were prescribed for oral administration. In the combined therapy group, acupuncture, moxibustion and modified Mojie tablet for oral administration were used in combination. The therapeutic methods were same as the acupuncture-moxibustion group and the Chinese medication group. Totally, the treatment of 3 months was required. Separately, before treatment, after treatment, in 3 months after treatment and in 6 months after treatment, EHP-5 score (endometriosis health profile-5), the abdominal/vaginal ultrasound examination, serum CA125 detection and safety index (ALT detection) were compared in patients among 4 groups.In 3 and 6 months after treatment, the positive rates of EHP-5 score were 0% (0/30) in the combined therapy group and 0% (0/30) in the acupuncture-moxibuston group, which were all lower significantly than 13.3% (4/30) in the western medication group (both P < 0.05). In follow-up stage of 6 months after treatment, there was no recurrence case in abdominal lviginal ultrasound examination in the combined therapy group, which was lower than 13.3% (4/30) in the western medication group (P < 0.05) the serum CA125 detection in the combined therapy group did not find any abnormal case, which was lower than 16.7% (5/30) in the western medication group (P < 0.05). At the end of treatment session and in the follow-up stage of 3 months after treatment, the abnormal rate of ALT were 20.0% (6/30) and 13.3% (4/30) in the western medication group, which were higher than those in any of the rest groups (P < 0.05). In the follow-up stage of 6 months after treatment, there were 3 abnormal cases of ALT in the western medication group, but which was not different significantly as compared with the rest groups (P > 0.05).Acupuncture and moxibustion combined with modified Mojie tablet effectively prevent from the recurrence of EMS after laparoscopic surgery and improve the life quality of the patients. This combined therapy brings less damage on the liver as compared with the western medication of gestrinone and indicates its definite efficacy and safety.