The morphological features of the uterine body adenocarcinoma. The anthors studied the morphological features of uterine adenocarcinoma using immunohistochemical methods. The endometrial tissue was studed resulting from surgery - hysterectomy with oophorectomy in 103 patients aged 45-76 years with a clinical diagnosis of endometrial cancer. To exclude false-positive and false-negative results, we carry out same investigation on 12 patients with morphological diagnosis easy-glandular hyperplasia of the endometrium. The results showed that the endometrioid adenocarcinomas exhibit the high and moderate expression of estrogen and progesterone receptors and low rate of the proliferation marker Ki-67. For serous-paapillary andenocarcionoma of the uterine body the negative ER-PR-receptor over expression phenotype and proliferation marker Ki-67 superexpression are characteristic. The results showed that in a simple-glandular endometrial hyperplasia is determined a moderate expression of estrogen and progesterone receptors, as for the Ki-67 proliferation marker an expression was found only in the single arears with an average of 5-8% of findings. Based at shis study it may be concluded thate the use of immunohistochemical studies particularly a detection of negative estrogen and progesterone resceptor phenotype and high expression of the proliferation marker Ki-67 is an additional defferential diagnostic eriterion for the diagnosis of serous papillary adenocarcinoma of the uterine body thet will ensure adepuate therapeutis approach to patients suffering from this disorder. Given he fact that serous papillary carcinoma of the endometrium is the most common neoplesm of the rarer forms of endometrial cancer with an extremely peculiar aggressive coures a ssurgical treatment as in overian cancer is recommended for this parthology, including a hysterectomy with bilateral oophorectomy, lymphadenectomy, omentektomy, cytological examination of the abdomend and biopsy of suspicious areas of the abdominal cavity, with adjuvant treatment including chemotherapy and radiation therapy. The absence of estrogen and progesterone receptors on serous-papilary adenocarcinoma of the uterine body justifies the inadvisability of hormone therapy in these patients. Since the patients with serous-papillary adenocarcinoma of the uterine body need a larger voluve surgical treatment the patients with еndometrioid adenocarcinoma of the uterine body. We consider that this morphological type of uterine cancer should be diagnosed preoperatively. 