Antigestagens. Recently potent 19-norprogestin derivatives of the RU 486-type were developed. Acting at the receptor level, these steroids are considered a major breakthrough in steroid endocrinology. Clinical studies indicate their potential use in fertility control. Besides biochemical, pharmacological and clinical aspects of the antiprogestins, the ultimate role in the therapeutic management of certain endometrial and breast cancers, endometriosis as well as induction of labour at term are discussed.In the early 1980s, the French pharmaceutical firm Roussel-Uclaf developed a strong progesterone antagonist called RU-486, which exhibits strong antiglucocorticoid and weak antiandrogenic effects.  The use of RU-486 in the middle to late luteal phase causes uterine bleeding after exogenous addition of human chorionic gonadotropin hindering nidation. Thus, progesterone antagonists could be used as once-a-month contraceptives.  During pregnancy, RU-486 binds to decidua and leads to bleeding because of the release of trophoblasts resulting in luteolysis. The release of prostaglandins increased the contractility of the myometrium, induces the dilatation of the cervix, and prevents implantation.  Women aborted in 85% of cases when RU-486 was used within 10 after missed menstruation.  By the 7th to 8th week of pregnancy, the rate dropped to 70%.  In advanced pregnancy after premedication with RU- 486, uterine susceptibility to prostaglandins is increased.  RU-486 induces negative feedback in corticotropine releasing factor (CRF) and in the ACTH-system, leading to increased ACTH-cortisone-and arginine- vasopressin-(AVP-) values in serum.  Although RU-486 was successfully used in doses of 5-20 mg/kg for the treatment of a patient with Cushing's syndrome, it did not lead to increased ACTH- cortisone-, aldosterone- or PRA serum values in normal women with doses up to 100 mg/day.  It is possible that RU-486 can treat mammary tumors, since it inhibits the in vitro growth of progesterone-sensitive cell lines of mammary carcinoma (MCF 7 and T 470), as indicated by the transplantation of progesterone receptor positive tumors in naked mice.