Intermittent Etidronate partially prevents bone loss in hirsute hyperandrogenic women treated with GnRH agonist. Treatment with gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist leads to enhanced bone turnover and accelerated bone loss in premenopausal women with endometriosis, uterine leiomyomatomas and hirsutism. Sodium etidronate is a powerful inhibitor of bone resorption which had been proven efficacious in the prevention and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. The objective of this study was to evaluate the skeletal effects of 6 months of therapy with the depot preparation of the GnRH agonist triptorelin (decapeptil 3.75 mg intramuscularly every 4 weeks) in 24 hirsute patients, aged 24-33 years, with hyperandrogenic chronic anovulation. Ten patients also received cyclical etidronate in an oral dose of 400 mg/day for 2 weeks, followed by an 11-week period of 500 mg/day elemental oral calcium (one cycle). The remaining 14 patients received 500 mg/day of elemental calcium continuously. After 6 months all treatments were discontinued for at least a further 6 months. Bone mineral density (BMD) at lumbar spine and hip (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, Sophos LXRA, France) and biochemical markers (serum alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin, urinary N-telopeptide and hydroxyproline/creatinine ratio) were evaluated at baseline, 6 months and 12 months. In the group given GnRH agonist alone BMD fell significantly at all measured skeletal sites during the first 6 months. In the patients treated with etidronate a significant decrease in BMD was observed at lumbar spine but not in the femoral neck and trochanter, and the changes at lumbar spine and trochanter were significantly smaller than those in the control group. At 6 months bone turnover was also increased in patients treated with GnRH and calcium. Cyclical etidronate prevented the increase in biochemical markers of bone formation and resorption, with the exception of calcium/creatinine excretion, which was significantly increased in both groups. Six months after treatment withdrawal BMD did not recover in either group. Biochemical markers (N-telopeptide, serum alkaline phosphatase) remained increased in those patients previously treated with calcium alone while they remained close to baseline values in the patients treated with cyclical etidronate. Our study indicates that: (1) GnRH agonist therapy causes remarkable bone loss in young individuals with androgen excess who are expected to have increased bone mass (2) this bone loss can be partially prevented by intermittent cyclical etidronate therapy.