Kinetic analysis of 52Fe-labelled iron(III) hydroxide-sucrose complex following bolus administration using positron emission tomography. Kinetic analysis of a single intravenous injection of 100 mg iron(III) hydroxide-sucrose complex (Venofer) mixed with 52Fe(III) hydroxide-sucrose as a tracer was followed for 3-6 h in four generally anaesthetized, artificially ventilated minipigs using positron emission tomography (PET). The amount of injected radioactivity ranged from 30 to 200 MBq. Blood radioactivity, measured by PET in the left ventricle of the heart, displayed a fast clearance phase followed by a slow one. In the liver and bone marrow a fast radioactivity uptake occurred during the first 30 min, followed by a slower steady increase. In the liver a slight decrease in radioactivity uptake was noted by the end of the study. A kinetic analysis using a three-compartment (namely blood pool, reversible and irreversible tissue pools) model showed a fairly high distribution volume in the liver as compared with the bone marrow. In conclusion, the pharmacokinetics of the injected complex was clearly visualized with the PET technique. The organs of particular interest, namely the heart (for blood kinetics), liver and bone marrow could all be viewed by a single setting of a PET tomograph with an axial field of view of 10 cm. The half-life (T1/2) of 52Fe (8.3 h) enables a detailed kinetic study up to 24 h. A novel method was introduced to verify the actual 52Fe contribution to the PET images by removing the interfering radioactive daughter 52mMn positron emissions. The kinetic data fitted the three-compartment model, from which rate constants could be obtained for iron transfer from the blood to a pool of iron in bone marrow or liver to which it was bound during the study period. In addition, there was a reversible tissue pool of iron, which in the liver slowly equilibrated with the blood, to give a net efflux from the liver some hours after i.v. administration. The liver uptake showed a relatively long distribution phase, whereas the injected iron was immediately incorporated into the bone marrow. Various transport mechanisms seem to be involved in the handling of the injected iron complex.