Application of PET-MRI registration techniques to cat brain imaging. In positron emission tomography (PET) studies of diseased animals, it is very useful to have accurate anatomical information as a reference. In human studies, anatomical information is usually obtained from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the subject with retrospective registration of the subject's PET image to the MRI. A number of PET-MRI registration techniques are used for this purpose. However, the utility of these methods has not been tested for animals image registration. This paper studies the feasibility of applying two currently used human brain PET-MRI registration techniques to cat brain images.Three cats were anesthetized with isoflurane gas, and PET images were acquired with H(2)(15)O, benzodiazepine receptor ligand 11C-flumazemil (FMZ), dopamine receptor ligand 11C-nemonapride (NEM) and fluorodeoxy glucose (18F-FDG). The four PET scans were acquired consecutively within the same day while the cat remained fixed in the scanner. We also obtained T1-weighted and T2-weighted MRI of the cats in a 4.7 T unit. The PET images were registered to MRI using two human brain registration techniques: a semi-automatic method (SAM), which is a two-step method based on the extraction of the midsagittal plane, and an automatic method (AMIR) method that minimizes PET pixel variance within spatially connected segments determined by MRI.T2-weighted MRI provided better structural information than T1 MRI. FMZ did, while FDG or H(2)O PET images did not, provide a structural outline of the brain. The FMZ PET image was registered to MRI satisfactorily using SAM. The striatum visualized in nemonapride PET image re-sliced with the same parameters matched the striatum identified in T2-weighted MRI. Registration by AMIR was successful by inspection for FMZ, FDG or H(2)O PET images in only one of the three cats. The registration error of SAM was estimated to be less than 2 mm or 2 degrees.A satisfactory registration of FMZ-PET to T2-weighted MRI of the cat brain was obtained by a two-step manual registration technique. This will enhance the usefulness of PET in the field of cerebral pathophysiology.