A comparative study on the uptake and incorporation of radiolabeled methionine, choline and fluorodeoxyglucose in human astrocytoma. The goal of this investigation was to evaluate uptake and incorporation of 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluoro-D-glucose (FDG), 11C-methionine, and 11C-choline in 17 patients suspected of grade-II and grade-III tumors using positron emission tomography (PET) and use in vitro astrocytoma cell lines in order to support in vivo findings.Seventeen patients with suspected astrocytomas (9 grade-II and 8 grade-III) were studied by PET with FDG and 11C-methionine and one patient (grade-III) with FDG, 11C-methionine and 11C-choline. Uptake of PET molecular imaging probe was quantitative based on tumor to corresponding contralateral-region uptake ratio, tumor to mean-cortical-uptake ratio, and tumor to white matter uptake ratio. This was correlated with World Health Organization histology grading system and clinical follow-up. Uptake and incorporation of 3H-methionine, 3H-choline and FDG into lipid, RNA, DNA, and protein were investigated in a grade-III human tumor brain-14 astrocytoma cell line.A time-dependent increase in the total uptake of 3H-methionine, 3H-choline and FDG was observed in human tumor brain-14 astrocytoma-III cell line. 3H-methionine was incorporated predominantly into proteins (in excess of 40% at 1 h) while 3H-choline incorporated primarily into lipids (in excess of 60% at 1 hr). Total uptake of FDG was accounted for in the free-pool supernatant fraction. In all patients, PET images of 11C-methionine and FDG provided higher tumor to white matter ratios than tumor to corresponding contra-lateral region ratios and tumor to mean cortical uptake ratios. In grade II patients, FDG did not exhibit significant increase in tumor uptake, while 11C-methionine was a good predictor with ratios of approximately 1.50 +/- 0.48. In grade III patients, both FDG and 11C-methionine exhibited higher ratios than for grade II, with 11C-methionine being the greatest (ratios of 2.50 +/- 0.85), possibly suggesting enhanced protein synthesis. With respect to tumor delineating potential, 11C-choline may be equal to or slightly better than 11C-methionine in the subject evaluated with all three probes.Results suggest that a combination of FDG and 11C-methionine is useful in the prediction of histological grade of astrocytomas. In addition, 11C-methionine is better than FDG in delineating tumor boundary for low-grade gliomas. In vitro results suggest that 3H-methionine is significantly incorporated into proteins and provides the major driving force in the uptake of 11C-methionine observed in PET images.