Joint explorative analysis of neuroreceptor subsystems in the human brain: application to receptor-transporter correlation using PET data. Positron emission tomography (PET) has proved to be a highly successful technique in the qualitative and quantitative exploration of the human brain's neurotransmitter-receptor systems. In recent years, the number of PET radioligands, targeted to different neuroreceptor systems of the human brain, has increased considerably. This development paves the way for a simultaneous analysis of different receptor systems and subsystems in the same individual. The detailed exploration of the versatility of neuroreceptor systems requires novel technical approaches, capable of operating on huge parametric image datasets. An initial step of such explorative data processing and analysis should be the development of novel exploratory data-mining tools to gain insight into the "structure" of complex multi-individual, multi-receptor data sets. For practical reasons, a possible and feasible starting point of multi-receptor research can be the analysis of the pre- and post-synaptic binding sites of the same neurotransmitter. In the present study, we propose an unsupervised, unbiased data-mining tool for this task and demonstrate its usefulness by using quantitative receptor maps, obtained with positron emission tomography, from five healthy subjects on (pre-synaptic) serotonin transporters (5-HTT or SERT) and (post-synaptic) 5-HT(1A) receptors. Major components of the proposed technique include the projection of the input receptor maps to a feature space, the quasi-clustering and classification of projected data (neighbourhood formation), trans-individual analysis of neighbourhood properties (trajectory analysis), and the back-projection of the results of trajectory analysis to normal space (creation of multi-receptor maps). The resulting multi-receptor maps suggest that complex relationships and tendencies in the relationship between pre- and post-synaptic transporter-receptor systems can be revealed and classified by using this method. As an example, we demonstrate the regional correlation of the serotonin transporter-receptor systems. These parameter-specific multi-receptor maps can usefully guide the researchers in their endeavour to formulate models of multi-receptor interactions and changes in the human brain.