Coregistration of magnetic resonance and single photon emission computed tomography images for noninvasive localization of stem cells grafted in the infarcted rat myocardium. This paper demonstrates the application of mutual information based coregistration of radionuclide and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in an effort to use multimodality imaging for noninvasive localization of stem cells grafted in the infarcted myocardium in rats. Radionuclide imaging such as single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) or positron emission tomography (PET) inherently has high sensitivity and is suitable for tracking of labeled stem cells, while high-resolution MRI is able to provide detailed anatomical and functional information of myocardium. Thus, coregistration of PET or SPECT images with MRI will map the location and distribution of stem cells on detailed myocardium structures. To validate this coregistration method, SPECT data were simulated by using a Monte Carlo-based projector that modeled the pinhole-imaging physics assuming nonzero diameter and photon penetration at the edge. Translational and rotational errors of the coregistration were examined with respect to various SPECT activities, and they are on average about 0.50 mm and 0.82 degrees , respectively. Only the rotational error is dependent on activity of SPECT data. Stem cells were labeled with (111)Indium oxyquinoline and grafted in the ischemic myocardium of a rat model. Dual-tracer small-animal SPECT images were acquired, which allowed simultaneous detection of (111)In-labeled stem cells and of [(99m)Tc]sestamibi to assess myocardial perfusion deficit. The same animals were subjected to cardiac MRI. A mutual-information-based coregistration method was then applied to the SPECT and MRIs. By coregistration, the (111)In signal from labeled cells was mapped into the akinetic region identified on cine MRIs the regional perfusion deficit on the SPECT images also coincided with the akinetic region on the MR image.