Collimator selection, acquisition speed, and visual assessment of 131I-tositumomab biodistribution in a phantom model. (131)I-Tositumomab has been used in treating patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. It is generally recommended that high-energy collimators be used to image patients before they receive (131)I-tositumomab therapy, to determine the effective half-life for therapeutic dose and gross biodistribution. Because many nuclear medicine departments do not possess high-energy collimators, this study was designed to assess the suitability of using medium-energy collimators. The effect of scanning speed was also investigated, in an attempt to optimize the acquisition time.Measurements were taken using an elliptic anthropomorphic torso phantom and an organ-scanning phantom fitted with fillable spheres (1-5 cm in diameter) and organ inserts. Three phantom studies were performed with differing initial (131)I concentrations in the organs, the spheres, and the thoracic and abdominal chambers. Images were acquired with both high-energy and medium-energy collimators and at acquisition speeds of 20 and 100 cm/min. The half-life for each combination (study/collimator/speed) was calculated from a linear fit of the data. The contrast of the tumor sphere was assessed using 2 identical regions, placed on and beside the sphere, and averaged over several time points. Biodistribution and image quality were visually assessed by 2 independent observers.Measured half-life values and visual assessment of biodistribution showed no significant difference between the 2 collimators (P = 0.32) or acquisition speeds (P = 0.85). A significant difference in the contrast of the tumor spheres was observed between the 2 collimators (P < 0.01) but not between acquisition speeds. Visual assessment of the images showed increased noise on the image acquired at 100 cm/min, although this noise did not affect lesion detectability.Measured half-life is not significantly different between the 2 collimators hence, calculation of the residence time would be nearly the same. Medium-energy collimators can be used to accurately calculate the (131)I-tositumomab therapeutic dose and detect alterations in biodistribution.