Non-small-cell lung cancer restaging with transcervical extended mediastinal lymphadenectomy. To analyse a diagnostic yield of the transcervical extended mediastinal lymphadenectomy (TEMLA) in restaging of the mediastinal nodes after neoadjuvant chemo- or chemo-radiotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).From 1 January 2004 to 30 April 2009, 63 patients who underwent induction chemotherapy or chemo-radiotherapy for N2 and N2/3 metastatic nodes discovered preoperatively were restaged. There were 12 women and 51 men in the age group of 43-71 (mean 57.8) years. There were 45 squamous cell carcinomas, 13 adenocarcinomas, one pleomorphic carcinoma and four NSCLCs. A total of 54 patients underwent neoadjuvant chemotherapy and nine chemo-radiotherapy. Seven patients had mediastinoscopy before neoadjuvant therapy. As many as 34 patients underwent endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS), one patient underwent endo-oesophageal ultrasound (EUS) and 10 patients underwent combined EBUS/EUS. The diagnostic results of TEMLA were compared with the results of the largest published series of restaging patients. The results of subsequent thoracotomies after negative TEMLA were presented.There were no serious complications or mortality after TEMLA. Metastatic nodes were discovered in 22 patients including three patients with N3 nodes and 19 patients with N2 nodes. Stations 7, 4R, 2R and 4L were the most prevalent. Of the 63 patients, 42 underwent subsequently thoracotomy. Resectability for negative TEMLA was 92.7%. There were 37 R0 resections and four R1 resections. There was no postoperative mortality, two bronchial fistulas were developed (after inferior bilobectomy and right pneumonectomy the second one healed spontaneously) and there were no other serious complications. During thoracotomy with completion lymphadenectomy one false-negative result was found (single node in station 8). Sensitivity of TEMLA in the discovery of N2/3 nodes during restaging was 95.5%, specificity 100%, accuracy 98.3%, negative predictive value (NPV) 97.4% and positive predictive value (PPV) 100%. TEMLA was found to have significantly better sensitivity and NPV (p<0.05) than other series of restaging. During follow-up a local recurrence was noted in six of 37 (15.7%) patients after pulmonary resection.(1) The results of TEMLA in restaging of NSCLC (N2/3) patients after induction chemotherapy or chemo-radiotherapy were significantly better than those achieved with remediastinoscopy, EBUS and positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT). (2) The results of future studies will show if TEMLA should be considered the gold standard of mediastinal nodal restaging after neoadjuvant therapy in patients with NSCLC.