Synthesis of hypoxia imaging agent 1-(5-deoxy-5-fluoro-α-D-arabinofuranosyl)-2-nitroimidazole using microfluidic technology. Microfluidic technology allows fast reactions in a simple experimental setup, while using very low volumes and amounts of starting material. Consequently, microfluidic technology is an ideal tool for radiolabeling reactions involving short-lived positron emitters. Optimization of the complex array of different reaction conditions requires knowledge of the different reaction parameters linked to the microfluidic system as well as their influence on the radiochemical yields. 1-(5-Deoxy-5-fluoro-α-d-arabinofuranosyl)-2-nitroimidazole ([(18)F]FAZA) is a frequently used radiotracer for PET imaging of tumor hypoxia. The present study describes the radiosynthesis of [(18)F]FAZA by means of microfluidic technology and subsequent small animal PET imaging in EMT-6 tumor-bearing mice.Radiosyntheses were performed using the NanoTek Microfluidic Synthesis System (Advion BioSciences, Inc.). Optimal reaction conditions were studied through screening different reaction parameters like temperature, flow rate, residency time, concentration of the labeling precursor (1-(2,3-di-O-acetyl-5-O-tosyl-α-d-arabinofuranosyl)-2-nitroimidazole) and the applied volume ratio between the labeling precursor and [(18)F]fluoride.Optimized reaction conditions at low radioactivity levels (1 to 50 MBq) afforded 63% (decay-corrected) of HPLC-purified [(18)F]FAZA within 25 min. Higher radioactivity levels (0.4 to 2.1 GBq) gave HPLC-purified [(18)F]FAZA in radiochemical yields of 40% (decay-corrected) within 60 min at a specific activity in the range of 70 to 150 GBq/μmol. Small animal PET studies in EMT-6 tumor-bearing mice showed radioactivity accumulation in the tumor (SUV(20min) 0.74 ± 0.08) resulting in an increasing tumor-to-muscle ratio over time.Microfluidic technology is an ideal method for the rapid and efficient radiosynthesis of [(18)F]FAZA for preclinical radiopharmacological studies. Careful analysis of various reaction parameters is an important requirement for the understanding of the influence of different reaction parameters on the radiochemical yield using microfluidic technology. Exploration of microfluidic technology for the radiosynthesis of other PET radiotracers in clinically relevant radioactivity levels is currently in progress.