Surgical treatment of bone tumors in conjunction with microwave-induced hyperthermia and adjuvant immunotherapy. A preliminary report. To develop an alternative approach in conjunction with microwave-induced hyperthermia.Thermotherapy with microwave intracorporeal irradiation was used to treat 73 patients with bone tumors. The series was composed of 58 patients with malignant tumors and 15 with benign tumors: most of tumors occurred about knee joints (53/73 = 72.6%). The surgical procedure included separating the tumor bearing segment from surrounding normal tissues with a safe margin, cooling the normal tissues including the neurovascular bundle and the intraarticular structures with a water circulation system, while heating the tumor with the antenna array of a microwave system and providing an adequate soft-tissue cover for the dead bone. Postoperatively, an immune therapy regimen was carried out regularly. The patients' immunologic functions were monitored by assay of the subpopulation of T cells, IL-2 and sIL-2 R (soluble IL-2 receptor).Follow-up varied from 3 to 38 months (mean 19 months). Excluding 3 patients with malignancy in the vertebrae treated for palliation, 70 were evaluated according to oncological and orthopedic criteria. Five patients had local recurrence and required amputation. The remaining 65 had excellent local control. In 6 of the 55 patients with malignancy of the extremities, lung metastasis occurred one to two years after surgery. The oncological results were similar to those obtained by other limb-saving procedures. Pathological fracture occurred at devitalized bone in 5 patients. In 72.5% of the patients (29 of 40 tumor-free cases followed more than one year), knee joints functioned well, being stable and painless with almost full range of motion. Single photon emission computered tomography (SPECT) for 16 patients revealed revascularization of the devitalized tumor bearing bone segment could accomplish in one year or more. The immune states were improved in various extends after thermotherapy plus immunotherapy in the majority of patients.These results show that the use of microwave hyperthermia and adjuvant immunotherapy in conjunction with the surgical treatment of bone tumors can be considered a definitive procedure, which is safe and well-tolerated. The oncological and orthopedic results are encouraging.