Single photon emission computed tomography with technetium-99m hexakis 2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile in acute myocardial infarction before and after thrombolytic treatment: assessment of salvaged myocardium and prediction of late functional recovery. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with technetium-99m hexakis 2-methoxyisobutyl isonitrile was investigated as a method to evaluate the results of intravenous thrombolytic treatment in 14 patients (11 men and 3 women) with acute myocardial infarction admitted to the coronary care unit within 4 h of the onset of symptoms. All patients received an injection of 740 MBq of the tracer before starting the thrombolytic therapy, and isonitrile tomography was performed 3 to 4 h later. The tomographic study was repeated 5 days after the acute event. The results of thrombolytic treatment were independently evaluated taking into account the clinical, electrocardiographic (ECG) and enzymatic data and the findings of left ventricular and coronary angiography. Furthermore, all patients were studied with two-dimensional echocardiography on admission, 5 days later and 1 month later. The site and extent of the perfusion defects on admission scintigraphy were consonant with the ECG and echocardiographic findings. A good correlation could be established between the 5 day scintigraphic estimate of infarct dimension and the enzymatic infarct size (r = 0.907, p less than 0.00002). The comparison between pre- and postthrombolytic treatment images enabled the identification of successful and unsuccessful reperfusion even in patients whose other noninvasive findings were inconclusive. Finally, the reduction in defect size predicted late functional improvement that was demonstrated by echocardiography performed 1 month later (r = 0.89, p less than 0.00005). The results of the study suggest the feasibility and the possible usefulness of isonitrile tomography in demonstrating the presence and size of myocardial damage and in assessing the extent of myocardial salvage after thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction.