Near infrared spectroscopy in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. Near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is a new technique that permits noninvasive monitoring of cerebral blood and tissue oxygenation. Recently, we and others have shown that NIRS measurements are sensitive enough to follow changes in cerebral hemoglobin oxygenation due to activation of brain function. Based on these findings we have assessed the influence of aging as well as the influence of neurodegeneration on cerebral hemoglobin oxygenation during mental work. The typical NIRS pattern in young healthy subjects while performing calculation tasks measured in the frontal cortex were increases in oxygenated hemoglobin [HbO2] and total hemoglobin [HbT] while reduced hemoglobin [HbR] decreased. Elderly healthy subjects showed a significant lower mean increase in [HbO2] and [HbT] levels. Regression analysis revealed an age-dependent decline in activation-induced local increase of [HbO2] as well as [HbT]. Furthermore, we monitored changes in cerebral hemoglobin oxygenation in the frontal cortex while patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) performed cognitive tasks. Whereas elderly healthy subjects (as well as patients with major depression, age-associated memory impairments or vascular dementia) again showed clear increases in the local concentrations of [HbO2] and [HbT] during brain activation, AD patients showed significant decreases compared to the baseline levels in both variables that were most pronounced in the parietal cortex. To clarify whether the different patterns in cerebral hemoglobin oxygenation during cognitive activation were due to an altered functional brain organization in AD or to alterations in the cerebrovascular response to neuronal activation, we are currently performing simultaneous NIRS and (015-H20-)PET measurements during performance of a cognitive task (Stroop test). Our finding of a regional reduced oxygen supply during activation of brain function may be of relevance to the development and the time course of neurodegeneration.