Long-term outcome of patients with very long stents for treatment of diffuse coronary disease. The study sought to determine the 6-month clinical outcome of patients who underwent implantation of very long coronary stents to treat diffuse disease and/or long dissections and to compare the findings with those reported in the literature for patients who underwent implantation of multiple short coronary stents.New designs of flexible stents enable the implantation of long stents rather than multiple short, older design stents. The initial experience is very promising but the long-term outcome has not been described yet.Fifty-seven consecutive patients in whom 67 long stents (>/=30 mm) were successfully deployed were included in this study. Six-month clinical and angiographic follow-up was prospectively collected. Patients with recurrent angina underwent coronary angiography without further testing. Patients who remained asymptomatic at the 6-month follow-up visit underwent positron emission tomographic imaging, and those with results suggestive of ischemia underwent coronary angiography. A combined study end point was defined as death, myocardial infarction, and the need for target vessel revascularization.Only 1 patient (2%) reached a study end point at hospital discharge. An additional 20 patients (total 21 patients [37%]) reached an end point by 6 months. The outcome was not influenced by the clinical presentation (stable or unstable angina) or by the indication for stenting (elective or emergency). Predictors for adverse outcome were multiple stents per narrowing (63% vs 29%, P <. 04), and stents smaller than 3.5 mm (49% vs 22%). Narrowing and stent length were not predictive of a study end point in narrowings that were successfully treated by a single long stent.Elective stenting provides an effective solution for patients with diffuse coronary disease provided that a single long stent (usually <40 mm) can cover the full length of the narrowing. The results are better when vessels larger than 3 mm are treated. Compared with multiple short stents, implantation of a single long stent is probably at least as effective, and the procedure is quicker and cheaper and thus should be the preferred approach.