SPECT semiquantitative analysis of adrenocortical (131)I-6 beta iodomethyl-norcholesterol uptake to discriminate subclinical and preclinical functioning adrenal incidentaloma. The goal of this study was to evaluate the clinical reliability of the (131)I-6 beta-iodomethyl-norcholesterol ((131)I-NP-59) uptake semiquantitative evaluation method we propose for the characterization of adrenocortical masses in a selected population of patients with disease clinically classified as subclinical (SC) and preclinical (PC) Cushing's syndrome (CS) according to Reincke's definition.Forty-seven consecutive patients with incidentally discovered unilateral adrenal masses were examined by a triple-head SPECT system after intravenous injection of (131)I-NP-59. Abdominal SPECT was performed at 24, 48, 72, and, in selected cases, 96 h after tracer injection. Connected with adrenals and liver, a standard elliptic region of interest (ROI) was manually drawn, taking care to avoid the gallbladder region. The adrenal ROI integral count, obtained by summing the 24-, 48-, and 72-h counting values, was normalized by the hepatic integral count. Subsequently, the adrenal percentage of relative uptake (UPT%) was computed.Discriminant analysis was performed on the variables UPT%, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) serum concentration, and CT mass dimension (CTMD) to determine the variable, or combination thereof, best discriminating between the SC-CS and PC-CS groups. Compared with both ACTH and CTMD variables, univariate analysis confirmed the UPT% variable as the most significant to discriminate between these 2 clinical groups. In fact, UPT% alone correctly classified 8 of 9 patients in the SC-CS group and 20 of 22 patients in the PC-CS group with 95% positive and 80% negative predictive values and with overall accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity equal to 90%, 91%, and 89%, respectively. When all 3 variables were submitted to stepwise discriminant analysis, the derived classification matrix, after cross-validation, correctly classified 9 of 9 patients in the SC-CS group and 18 of 22 patients in the PC-CS group with 100% positive and 69% negative predictive values and with overall accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity equal to 87%, 82%, and 100%, respectively.According to these initial results, use of the proposed semiquantitative approach associated with both laboratory screening for cortisol production and CTMD measure seems to be able to increase the clinical diagnostic accuracy of PC-CS. This approach could be used in the follow-up of adrenal mass function every time hormonal or clinical features are suggestive of adrenocortical hyperfunction.