Evaluation of peritoneal transport properties at onset of peritoneal dialysis and longitudinal follow-up. The clinical determinants of baseline peritoneal membrane (PM) transport characteristics, as evaluated by a hypertonic peritoneal equilibration test (PET), remain ill-defined. Likewise, the longitudinal evolution of PM transport properties in peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients given automated PD (APD) and icodextrin still needs to be determined precisely. The aims of the present study were (1) to determine the clinical and biological factors affecting PM transport characteristics at PD onset and (2) to assess the longitudinal evolution of these markers.Seventy-two consecutive patients performed a baseline 3.86% glucose dialysate PET and were enrolled. Subgroups of 35 and 18 patients underwent another PET 1 and 2 year(s) later, respectively, and were included in the longitudinal part. For each patient, clinical and biological data were reviewed and PM transport markers calculated.At onset of PD, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor intake (r = 0.31, P = 0.01), presence of a diabetes (r = 0.26, P = 0.03) and body surface area (BSA) (r = 0.26, P = 0.03) independently affected the mass transfer area coefficient (MTAC) of creatinine. Serum albumin (r = -0.46, P<0.001) and net ultrafiltration (r = -0.33, P = 0.009) inversely correlated with MTAC creatinine. Sodium sieving was inversely correlated with BSA (r = -0.33, P = 0.01). Serum albumin also inversely correlated with albumin clearance (r = -0.39, P = 0.02). Finally, the independent covariates that affected alpha2-macroglobulin clearance were age (P = 0.03), diabetes (P = 0.01) and the level of residual renal function (P<0.01). Serum albumin decreased with time on PD (P = 0.02). A rise in small solute transport and a decrease in net ultrafiltration, but no change in protein clearances, were also observed after 2 years of PD.Transport properties across the PM, as evaluated by MTAC creatinine and sodium sieving determinations, are correlated with anthropometric characteristics (BSA) and by comorbid conditions (witnessed by the presence of diabetes, a low serum albumin concentration and the prescription of an ACE inhibitor). The short-term evolution (2 years) of the PM transport properties of patients on APD and icodextrin is still characterized by a progressive increase in small solute transport and a loss of ultrafiltration capacity, as documented in ancient studies, but not with a modification in protein clearances. This conclusion merits, however, to be further evaluated in a larger cohort of PD patients after a longer follow-up.