Dual energy exposure control (DEEC) for computed tomography: algorithm and simulation study. DECT means acquiring the same object at two different energies, respectively two different tube voltages U1 and U2. The raw data q1 and q2 undergo a decomposition process of type p = p(q1,q2). The raw data p are reconstructed to obtain monochromatic images of the attenuation mu, of the object density rho, or of a specific material distribution. Recent advances in DECT focus on noise reduction techniques [S. Richard and J. H. Siewerdsen, Med. Phys. 35(2), 586-600 (2008)] and enable high performance DECT such as lung nodule detection [Shkumat et al., Med. Phys. 35(2), 629-632 (2008)]. Given p and a raw data-based projection-wise patient dose estimation D(alpha) the authors determine the optimal tube current curves I1(alpha) and I2(alpha), with alpha being the view angle, which minimizes image noise for a given patient dose level. DEEC can perform online I1(alpha) and I2(alpha) can be determined during the scan. Simulation studies using semianthropomorphic phantom data were carried out. In particular, functions p that generate mu-images and density images were evaluated. Image quality was compared to standard scans at U0=120 kV (clinical CT) and U0=45 kV (micro-CT) that were taken at the same dose level (D0=D1 + D2) and identical spatial resolution. Appropriate choice of p(q1, q2) allows to obtain mu-images that show fewer artifacts and yield image noise levels comparable to the noise of the standard scan. The authors compared the standard scan to mu-images at 70 keV, which is the effective energy used in clinical CT, and found optimal results with mu-images at 25 keV for micro-CT. Nonoptimal choice of the decomposition function will, however, significantly increase image noise. In particular mu-images at 511 keV, as needed for PET/CT attenuation correction, exhibit more than twice as much image noise as the standard scan. With DEEC, which guarantees best dose usage possible, monochromatic images are generated with only slightly increased noise levels at the same dose compared to a standard scan. The benefit of significantly decreased artifacts appears to allow using DEEC-generated monochromatic images in daily routine. Furthermore, DEEC is not restricted to DECT and the inherent tube current modulation algorithm may also be applied to single energy CT.