Construction of mutant TKGFP for real-time imaging of temporal dynamics of HIF-1 signal transduction activity mediated by hypoxia and reoxygenation in tumors in living mice. The herpes simplex virus type 1 thymidine kinase (HSV1-tk)/green fluorescent protein (TKGFP) dual-reporter gene and a multimodality imaging approach play a critical role in monitoring therapeutic gene expression, immune cell trafficking, and protein-protein interactions in translational molecular-genetic imaging. However, the cytotoxicity and low temporal resolution of TKGFP limits its application in studies that require a rapid turnover of the reporter. The purpose of this study was to construct a novel mutant TKGFP fusion reporter gene with low cytotoxicity and high temporal resolution for use in the real-time monitoring of temporal dynamics and spatial heterogeneity of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) signal transduction activity mediated by hypoxia and reoxygenation in vitro and in vivo.Destabilized TKGFP was produced by inserting the nuclear export signal (NES) sequence at the N terminus and fusing the degradation domain of mouse ornithine decarboxylase (dMODC) at the C terminus. The stability of TKGFP in living NG4TL4 cells was determined by Western blot analysis, HSV1-tk enzyme activity assay, and flow cytometric analysis. The suitability of NESTKGFP:dMODC as a transcription reporter was investigated by linking it to a promoter consisting of 8 copies of hypoxia-responsive elements, whose activities depend on HIF-1. The dynamic transcriptional events mediated by hypoxia and reoxygenation were monitored by NESTKGFP:dMODC or TKGFP and determined by optical imaging and PET.Unlike TKGFP, NESTKGFP:dMODC was unstable in the presence of cycloheximide and showed a short half-life of protein and enzyme activity. Rapid turnover of NESTKGFP:dMODC occurred in a 26S proteasome-dependent manner. Furthermore, NESTKGFP:dMODC showed an upregulated expression and low cytotoxicity in living cells. Studies of hypoxia-responsive TKGFP and NESTKGFP:dMODC expression showed that NESTKGFP:dMODC as a reporter gene had better temporal resolution than did TKGFP for monitoring the dynamic transcriptional events mediated by hypoxia and reoxygenation the TKGFP expression level was not optimal for the purpose of monitoring.In translational molecular-genetic imaging, NESTKGFP:dMODC as a reporter gene, together with optical imaging and PET, allows the direct monitoring of transcription induction and easy determination of its association with other biochemical changes.