Qualitative and quantitative MALDI imaging of the positron emission tomography ligands raclopride (a D2 dopamine antagonist) and SCH 23390 (a D1 dopamine antagonist) in rat brain tissue sections using a solvent-free dry matrix application method. The distributions of positron emission tomography (PET) ligands in rat brain tissue sections were analyzed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry imaging (MALDI MSI). The detection of the PET ligands was possible following the use of a solvent-free dry MALDI matrix application method employing finely ground dry α-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid (CHCA). The D2 dopamine receptor antagonist 3,5-dichloro-N-{[(2S)-1-ethylpyrrolidin-2-yl]methyl}-2-hydroxy-6-methoxybenzamide (raclopride) and the D1 dopamine receptor antagonist 7-chloro-3-methyl-1-phenyl-1,2,4,5-tetrahydro-3-benzazepin-8-ol (SCH 23390) were both detected at decreasing abundance at increasing period postdosing. Confirmation of the compound identifications and distributions was achieved by a combination of mass-to-charge ratio accurate mass, isotope distribution, and MS/MS fragmentation imaging directly from tissue sections (performed using MALDI TOF/TOF, MALDI q-TOF, and 12T MALDI-FT-ICR mass spectrometers). Quantitative data was obtained by comparing signal abundances from tissues to those obtained from quantitation control spots of the target compound applied to adjacent vehicle control tissue sections (analyzed during the same experiment). Following a single intravenous dose of raclopride (7.5 mg/kg), an average tissue concentration of approximately 60 nM was detected compared to 15 nM when the drug was dosed at 2 mg/kg, indicating a linear response between dose and detected abundance. SCH 23390 was established to have an average tissue concentration of approximately 15 μM following a single intravenous dose at 5 mg/kg. Both target compounds were also detected in kidney tissue sections when employing the same MSI methodology. This study illustrates that a MSI may well be readily applied to PET ligand research development when using a solvent-free dry matrix coating.