Toward a practical template-based approach to semiquantitative SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging. Our template-based quantitative perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) method (T-QPS) performs semiquantitative analysis for myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) without the use of normal databases. However, in its current form, T-QPS requires extensive calculations, which limits its clinical application. In the interest of clinical feasibility, the authors examine the trade-off between accuracy and processing time as the method is simplified.The T-QPS method uses the reconstructed SPECT image of the patient to create a 3D digital template of his∕her healthy heart. This template is then projected, reconstructed, and sampled into the bulls-eye map domain. A ratio of the patient and template images produces a final corrected image in which a threshold is applied to identify perfusion defects. In principle, the template should be constructed with the heart and all extracardiac activity, and the projection step should include primary and scatter components however, this leads to lengthy calculations. In an attempt to shorten the processing time, the authors analyzed the performance of four template (T) generation methods: T(P-HRT), T(PS-HRT), T(P-HRTBKG), and T(PS-HRTBKG), where P and S represent primary and scattered photons included in the projection step, respectivelyApproximate processing times for the T(P-HRT), T(PS-HRT), T(P-HRTBKG), and T(PS-HRTBKG) methods were less than a minute, 2-3 h, less than a minute and 3-4 h, respectively. In both the simulation and patient studies, a significant reduction in the quality of perfusion defect definition was exhibited by the T(P-HRT) method relative to the other three methods. The optimal method with respect to perfusion defect definition and processing time was T(P-HRTBKG) with a sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy in spatially defining the perfusion defects (simulation study) of 80%, 84%, and 83%, respectively.The T-QPS method using T(P-HRTBKG) leads to accurate and fast semiquantitative analysis of SPECT MPI, without the use of normal databases.