Treatment with sunitinib for patients with progressive metastatic pheochromocytomas and sympathetic paragangliomas. Patients with progressive metastatic pheochromocytomas (PHEOs) or sympathetic paragangliomas (SPGLs) face a dismal prognosis. Current systemic therapies are limited.The primary end point was progression-free survival determined by RECIST 1.1 criteria or positron emission tomography with [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose/computed tomography ([(18)F]FDG-PET/CT), in the absence of measurable soft tissue targets. Secondary endpoints were tumor response according to RECIST criteria version 1.1 or FDG uptake, blood pressure control, and safety.We conducted a retrospective review of medical records of patients with metastatic PHEO/SPGL treated with sunitinib from December 2007 through December 2011. An intention-to-treat analysis was performed.Seventeen patients with progressive metastatic PHEO/SPGLs treated at the Institut Gustave-Roussy and MD Anderson Cancer Center.Patients treated with sunitinib.According to RECIST 1.1, eight patients experienced clinical benefit three experienced partial response, and five had stable disease, including four with predominant skeletal metastases that showed a 30% or greater reduction in glucose uptake on [(18)F]FDG-PET/CT. Of 14 patients who had hypertension, six became normotensive and two discontinued antihypertensives. One patient treated with sunitinib and rapamycin experienced a durable benefit beyond 36 months. The median overall survival from the time sunitinib was initiated was 26.7 months with a progression-free survival of 4.1 months (95% confidence interval = 1.4-11.0). Most patients who experienced a clinical benefit were carriers of SDHB mutations.Sunitinib is associated with tumor size reduction, decreased [(18)F]FDG-PET/CT uptake, disease stabilization, and hypertension improvement in some patients with progressive metastatic PHEO/PGL. Prospective multi-institutional clinical trials are needed to determine the true benefits of sunitinib.