Some physical factors influencing the accuracy of convolution scatter correction in SPECT. Some important physical factors influencing the accuracy of convolution scatter correction techniques in SPECT are presented. In these techniques scatter correction in the projection relies on filter functions, QF, evaluated by Fourier transforms, from measured scatter functions, Qp, obtained from point spread functions. The spatial resolution has a marginal effect on Qp. Thus a single QF can be used in the scatter correction of SPECT measurements acquired with the low energy high resolution or the low energy general purpose collimators and over a wide range of patient-collimator distances. However, it is necessary to examine the details of the shape of point spread functions during evaluation of Qp. QF is completely described by scatter amplitude AF, slope BF and filter sum SF. SF is obtained by summation of the values of QF occupying a 31 x 31 pixels matrix. Regardless of differences in amplitude and slope, two filter functions are shown to be equivalent in terms of scatter correction ability, whenever their sums are equal. On the basis of filter sum, the observed small influence of ellipticity on QF implies that an average function can be used in scatter correcting SPECT measurements conducted with elliptic objects. SF is shown to increase with a decrease in photon energy and with an increase in window size. Thus, scatter correction by convolution may be severely hampered by photon statistics when SPECT imaging is done with low-energy photons. It is pointless to use unnecessarily large discriminator windows, in the hope of improving photon statistics, since most of the extra events acquired will eventually be subtracted during scatter correction. Regardless of the observed moderate reduction in SF when a lung-equivalent material replaces a portion of a water phantom, further studies are needed to develop a technique that is capable of handling attenuation and scatter corrections simultaneously. Whenever superficial and inner radioactive distributions coexist the observed reduction of SF close to the phantom surface indicates that scatter correction of such distributions has to rely on two distinct filter functions. Corrections based on a surface function produce accurate results in the superficial region, while the central distributions are substantially overestimated. Surface radioactive distributions introduce appreciable errors in the determination of central distributions when corrections are based on central filter function. This function introduces a reduction of about 40% in the measured surface concentration.