New wave of research in the epilepsies. The epilepsies affect at least 1 to 2 million people in the United States and 20 to 40 million people worldwide. Because the causes and basic mechanisms of the epilepsies have only started to unravel, there is still no cure for the disease. The purpose of this chapter is to present the new routes of navigation in epilepsy research, the salient theories on mechanisms of epilepsies, and their cogency to cause (generation of seizures) and effects (epileptic cell damage). In particular, it advances a comprehensible picture of the major cellular events involved in the generation, arrest, or spread of partial epileptic seizures it also questions the major molecular events involved in the transmission and use of genetic information in the generalized epilepsies. In reviewing the many theories on mechanisms of epilepsies, this chapter establishes the connections between neurosciences, molecular genetics, and the epilepsies. The knowledge gained from such connections will certainly bear on the diagnosis of the subvarieties of epilepsies and is already promoting new methods of treatment of the disease. Indeed, it is this fusion between molecular genetics, neurosciences, and the clinical epilepsies that provides the excitement and new ferment in research of the epilepsies. This chapter also advances a conceptual blueprint for priority challenges in epilepsy research. It calls attention to the primary goal, namely, understanding the mechanisms of human epilepsies. In the most common of human epilepsies, namely, temporal lobe epilepsy, a priority challenge is to analyze paroxysmal depolarization shifts in hippocampal slices in vitro, slices excised from known sites of epileptogenicity. Parallel experiments exploring biochemical membrane abnormalities in neuronal and glial membranes isolated from the hippocampal seizure focus would be especially valuable. The role of kindling and the mirror focus in human temporal lobe epilepsy must be resolved. A second important goal is the search for polymorphisms of restriction endonuclease patterns in monogenic epilepsies in order to localize the abnormal gene to a specific chromosome. Because of the recent successful applications of positron emission tomography (PET), single-photon-emission computed tomography, and nuclear magnetic resonance computed tomography (NMR-CT), ion transport pathways, neurotransmitter systems, and metabolic processes may be constructed within the functioning brains of epileptic patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)