Neuroimaging findings of cortical dyslamination with cytomegaly. Our aims were to identify (a) the characteristic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings of cortical dyslamination with cytomegaly, including dysplastic and destructive lesions (b) the relationship between MRI findings and pathologic characteristicsThe series consisted of 23 adult patients who had proven cortical dyslamination with cytomegaly. The abnormalities found on MRI were subdivided according to the patterns of involvement. They also were compared with the patients' pathologic characteristics. With visual qualitative analysis, [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose with positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), and ictal single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), observations were classified as localizing, lateralizing, nonlateralizing, false-localizing, and false-lateralizing. The standard for correct localization of neuroimages was defined to be the resected lobe.Focal abnormalities were found in 14 cases by MRI. Six cases showed typical MRI findings of focal cortical dysplasia, with focal areas of cortical thickening with or without poor grey-white matter differentiation. Focal subcortical high signal intensities on T2-weighted images occurred in two cases. Six patients had the focal destructive pattern. Three of eight cases with normal MRI and four of eight cases with the nondestructive cortical dysplasia pattern had balloon cells. However, these were not found in six patients with the destructive MRI pattern. FDG-PET localized the pathologic lobe in 13 (65%) of 20 cases, and ictal SPECT achieved this in 11 (61.1%) of 18 cases. FDG-PET and ictal SPECT also correctly localized the pathologic lobe in four and two cases with normal MRI, respectively.Two distinct patterns of abnormal MRI were found in the pathology of cortical dyslamination with cytomegaly. These dysplastic and destructive patterns might reflect different pathogeneses, such as the time of insult. FDG-PET and ictal SPECT have confirmatory and independent diagnostic roles in localizing epileptogenic foci.