Extended cervical mediastinoscopy in the staging of bronchogenic carcinoma of the left lung. To evaluate the technical feasibility and the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of extended cervical mediastinoscopy (ECM) in the staging of bronchogenic carcinoma (BC) of the left lung.From 1998 to 2003, 89 patients underwent routine ECM for staging of BC of the left lung. In 2004, positron emission tomography (PET) was included in our staging protocol and ECM was reserved for those with positive mediastinal or hilar PET images, large lymph nodes on computed tomography (CT) scan or central tumours. From 2004 to 2007 we performed selective ECM in 67 patients. ECM was considered positive when metastatic nodes or tumour involvement directly in the subaortic or para-aortic regions was confirmed pathologically. One hundred and forty-three patients with negative ECM underwent subsequent thoracotomy for tumour resection and systematic nodal dissection. Pathological findings were reviewed and staging values were calculated.One hundred and fifty-six patients underwent ECM (89 routine and 67 selective). In 13, ECM was positive and thoracotomy was contraindicated. The rest of the patients were operated. We performed 88 lobectomies, 34 pneumonectomies, 6 wedge resections, 13 exploratory thoracotomies and 2 parasternal mediastinotomies. Lymphadenectomy specimens showed tumour involvement of subaortic lymph nodes in 8 patients. Complication rate was 2%: two cases of mediastinitis, one ventricular fibrillation, and one superficial surgical wound infection. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and accuracy of routine/selective ECM were: 0.45/0.75, 1/1, 1/1, 0.94/0.95, 0.94/0.95, respectively.ECM is a feasible staging technique that allows ruling out subaortic and para-aortic nodal disease with high negative predictive value, accuracy and sensitivity. Its indication based on the CT and PET findings seems more advisable that its routine use to stage bronchogenic carcinoma of the left lung.