Myocardial blood flow, glucose uptake, and recruitment of inotropic reserve in chronic left ventricular ischemic dysfunction. Implications for the pathophysiology of chronic myocardial hibernation. Previous work has documented that dysfunctional noninfarcted collateral-dependent myocardium, a condition typical of myocardial hibernation, exhibited almost normal resting perfusion. The present study was designed to test whether these observations could be extended to unselected patients with chronic dysfunction and a previous infarction.Dynamic positron emission tomographic imaging with [13N]ammonia and [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) to assess myocardial perfusion and glucose uptake was performed in 39 patients with chronic anterior wall dysfunction undergoing coronary revascularization. Left ventricular function was evaluated by echocardiography before (at rest and during low-dose dobutamine infusion) and 5 months after revascularization. At follow-up, wall motion was improved in 24 patients and unchanged in 15 patients. Before revascularization, absolute myocardial blood flow was higher (84 +/- 27 versus 60 +/- 26 mL.min-1 x 100 g-1, P = .007) in reversibly compared with persistently dysfunctional segments. In segments with reversible dysfunction, values of myocardial blood flow were similar to those in the remote segments of the same patients or in anterior segments of normal volunteers. During glucose clamp, FDG uptake was higher (69 +/- 17% versus 49 +/- 18%, P < .01) but myocardial glucose uptake was not different (38 +/- 20 versus 29 +/- 19 mumol.min-1.100 g-1, P = NS) in reversibly compared with persistently dysfunctional segments. A flow-metabolism mismatch was present in 18 of 24 reversibly injured but absent in 10 of 15 persistently dysfunctional segments. With dobutamine, wall motion improved in 17 of 24 reversibly dysfunctional segments and did not change in 13 of 15 segments with persistent dysfunction.This study indicates that chronic but reversible ischemic dysfunction is associated with almost normal resting myocardial perfusion, with maintained FDG uptake, and with recruitable inotropic reserve. These data support the contention that chronic hibernation is not the consequence of a permanent reduction of transmural myocardial perfusion at rest.