Nuclear and echocardiographic imaging for prediction of reversible left ventricular ischemic dysfunction after coronary revascularization: current status and future directions. Modern therapy of coronary artery disease (CAD) increasingly involves interventional strategies aimed at restoring blood flow to the ischemic myocardium. The emergence of coronary artery bypass surgery, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, and more recently thrombolytic therapy, has helped to change the natural course of ischemic heart disease and contribute to the overall reduction in the mortality from both acute myocardial infarction and chronic CAD. Presumably, the beneficial effects of revascularization result from improving blood supply to dysfunctional but viable regions with subsequent improvement in regional and global left ventricular function. Over the past decade, several approaches have been proposed to predict the reversibility of left ventricular dysfunction after coronary revascularization. For the most part, these methods rely on assessment of basic cellular mechanisms that are known to play a central role in the recovery of systolic function after coronary revascularization. These include sufficient resting perfusion to provide metabolic fuels and to allow wash-out of toxic metabolites, maintain membrane integrity (which includes the ability to generate transmembrane ionic gradients and to transport energy providing substrates), preserve metabolic machinery (to allow glucose, fatty acid and oxygen consumption), and recruitable inotropic reserve. Among the available modalities, thallium imaging, positron emission tomography, and low-dose dobutamine echocardiography are currently the most frequently used in the clinical setting. All allow prediction of reversible dysfunction with a high degree of sensitivity (greater than 80%). They seem to vary, however, in terms of specificity, thallium imaging showing the lowest (50-55%) and dobutamine echocardiography the highest (80-85%) specificity. New promising modalities, such as FDG or MIBI SPECT imaging, contrast echocardiography and integrated backscatter imaging are just ahead and will likely strengthen further our ability to identify jeopardized but viable myocardium.