Left ventricular dysfunction due to the new ischemic outcomes: stunning and hibernation. Several potential manifestations and outcomes are associated with myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. When ischemia is severe and prolonged, irreversible damage occurs and there is no recovery of contractile function. When ischemia is less severe or shorter in duration, recovery of contraction may occur instantaneously or more commonly, after considerable delay, which is the condition recognized as "stunned myocardium." Stunning is defined as a transient left ventricular dysfunction that persists after reperfusion despite the absence of irreversible damage and restoration of normal or near-normal coronary flow. Oxidative stress and alteration of calcium homeostasis during reperfusion are the probable causes of stunning. Clinically, stunning may occur after acute infarction, successful thrombolysis, unstable angina, angioplasty, resolution of coronary spasm, open-heart surgery, or transplantation. It can be treated with interventions aimed at prevention or reversal. When ischemia is prolonged but less severe, myocytes may remain viable but exhibit depressed contraction. Under these conditions, reperfusion restores normal contractile performance. This type of ischemia, leading to a reversible, chronic left ventricular dysfunction, has been termed "hibernating myocardium." The intrinsic mechanisms of this condition are unknown. Clinically, it is very important to diagnose hibernation because reperfusion of the hibernating myocardium by angioplasty or heart surgery restores contraction, and this correlates with long-term survival. A number of methods are available to access the hibernating myocardium. These include cardiac imaging techniques that evaluate myocardial viability, such as positron emission tomography and thallium myocardial imaging, or methods that evaluate contractile reserve, such as low-dose dobutamine echocardiography. Interestingly, reperfusion of patients with end-stage ischemic cardiomyopathy and hibernating myocardium can be considered an alternative to transplantation.