The role of fluorine-18-deoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) whole body scan (WBS) in the staging and follow-up of cancer patients: our first experience. We report the results of FDG PET whole body scan in 75 cancer patients in whom tumor extent was defined by surgical, histological or cytological findings and clinical follow-up. Twenty-five had malignant lymphomas, 24 lung carcinomas, and 26 other types of solid tumors. Twenty-three patients were evaluated at disease onset, before therapy, and 37 at the moment of tumor recurrence the remaining 15 patients were in complete remission after treatment and were taken as controls. Visual and quantitative PET results were compared with conventional imaging (US, CT scan and/or MRI, and Tc99m MDP bone scan). In the 60 patients with active disease, PET as well as conventional imaging were able to locate the primary tumor in all 23 patients studied at disease onset. However, with regard to lymph node and distant metastases, PET provided the same information as conventional imaging in 31 cases (51.6%), but revealed further neoplastic foci in 29 cases (48.4%), 21 in lymph nodes and 8 at distant sites. The sensitivity of PET, in comparison with conventional imaging, was 100% versus 100% for the detection of the primary tumor, 97.6% versus 55.8% for the localization of node metastases, and 100% versus 55.5% for the visualization of distant metastases. The specificity, calculated in the group of 15 disease-free patients, was 100% for PET and 86.6% for conventional imaging. The therapeutic approach was modified in 12 patients (20%) on the basis of the PET results. Furthermore, in 14 cases (23.3%) with advanced disease, PET provided complete information on tumor spread, otherwise obtainable only by taking together the results of all other diagnostic procedures. Our data indicate a higher accuracy of FDG PET whole body scan compared to conventional imaging techniques in the evaluation of metastatic spread both at initial diagnosis and during follow-up, with an important impact on therapeutic decision-making. Moreover, by providing complete information on tumor spread in some cases, PET can become a profitable tool in terms of cost reduction.