Seven years of intracytoplasmic sperm injection and follow-up of 1987 subsequent children. Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) with ejaculated, epididymal or testicular spermatozoa was first successful in 1992 and has since become the widely accepted treatment for couples with severe male-factor infertility. The outcome of several thousands of ICSI cycles in terms of fertilization, embryo cleavage and implantation is similar to that for conventional in-vitro fertilization in couples with tubal or idiopathic infertility. To evaluate the important issue of safety of the new technique of ICSI, a prospective follow-up study of 1987 children born after ICSI was carried out. The aim was to compile data on karyotypes, congenital malformations, growth parameters and developmental milestones. Parents' agreement to genetic counselling was obtained as well as prenatal diagnosis, followed by a physical examination of the children at 2 months, 1 year and 2 years. Between April 1991 and August 1997, 1699, 91 and 118 children were born after ICSI with ejaculated, epididymal and testicular spermatozoa respectively 79 children were born from cryopreserved ICSI embryos. In all, 1082 karyotypes were determined by prenatal diagnosis, 18 of which were abnormal and de novo (1.66%) (nine each of autosomal and sex chromosomal aberrations), and 10 karyotypes (0.92%) were inherited structural aberrations. Of these, nine (eight balanced structural aberrations and one unbalanced trisomy 21) were transmitted from the father. Ten pregnancies were terminated after prenatal karyotyping or DNA testing. Forty-six major malformations (2.3%) were observed at birth. Seven malformations, observed by prenatal ultrasound, were terminated. Twenty-one (1.1 %) stillbirths, including four with major malformations, occurred later than 20 weeks of pregnancy. Mean gestational age at birth was 38.7 weeks for singletons, 36.0 weeks for twins and 32.0 weeks for triplets. No specifically higher incidence of malformations was found in any given subgroup.