Rapid detection of chromosomes X and Y aneuploidies by quantitative fluorescent PCR. Quantitative fluorescent polymerase chain reaction (QF-PCR) assays and small tandem repeat (STR) markers have been successfully employed for the rapid detection of major numerical aneuploidies affecting human autosomes. So far, the analysis of chromosomes X and Y disorders has been hampered by the rarity of highly polymorphic markers which could distinguish normal female homozygous PCR patterns from those seen in patients with Turner's syndrome. A new marker (X22) of the X/Y chromosomes has been identified which maps in the Xq/Yq pseudoautosomal region PAR2 used together with the HPRT it allows the rapid diagnosis of numerical aneuploidies of the sex chromosomes. Blood samples from normal male and female subjects and from patients with X and Y chromosome disorders (45,X and 47, XXY) have been tested by QF-PCR with the X22 polymorphic pentanucleotide (12 alleles) together with the HPRT and P39 markers. The samples were also tested by multiplex QF-PCR with STRs specific for chromosomes 21,18,13 and amelogenin (AMXY). Tested by QF-PCR, all samples from normal females were heterozygous for either the X22 or the HPRT marker with fluorescent peak ratios near 1:1, thus allowing a correct, rapid diagnosis of their chromosome complement. Turner's patients (45,X) showed only one X22 and one HPRT fluorescent peak, thus documenting the presence of a single X chromosome. Turner's patients with mosaicism showed a major fluorescent peak for the X22 and HPRT markers and a minor peak revealing the presence of a second minor population of cells. Two 47, XXY cases could also be diagnosed. Multiplex analyses can be performed using simultaneously STR markers for chromosomes 21,18,13 X and Y. The diagnostic value of a third X-linked marker (P39) was also investigated. These results suggest that rapid diagnosis of major numerical anomalies of the X and Y chromosomes can be performed using QF-PCR with a new highly polymorphic X-linked marker, X22, which maps in the Xq/Yq pseudoautosomal region PAR 2. Multiplex QF-PCR tests-using the X22 STR in association with HPRT and, in rare cases, a third P39 marker-allow the rapid diagnosis of major aneuploidies affecting chromosomes 21, 18, 13, X and Y. The X22 marker can also be employed for the detection of fetal cells present in maternal peripheral blood or the endocervical canal.