What's new in fetal medicine?. One of the major progress in fetal medicine in recent years is the increased sensitivity of sonographic screening for foetal malformations, due to technical improvement but also to a better training of professionals. Screening for chromosomal abnormalities is no longer based on maternal age alone. Second trimester maternal serum screening (MSS) is increasingly used: thus in 1997, 376,798 MSS tests were performed in France, yielding to the prenatal diagnosis of 391 cases of Down's syndrome. First trimester sonographic nuchal translucency measurement (NTM) is an effective screening method when performed under stringent conditions. Quality control however, is more difficult to implement on a large scale for NTM than for MSS. Performing screening tests sequentially carries a danger of generating an unnecessarily high number of amniocentesis, which may be obviated by a rational calculation of an individual's risk to carry an aneuploid baby. First trimester MSS is expected to become standard practice in the next years, probably in combination with NTM. Cytogenetics underwent substantial innovations recently, due to the ever-increasing use of molecular cytogenetics. FISH techniques allow: 1) precise analysis of unexpected structural chromosomal abnormalities diagnosed by routine amniocentesis, 2) rapid screening of the most common aneuploidies by amniocentesis when a fetal structural anomaly is detected by 3rd trimester ultrasound, 3) diagnosis of micro-deletions suspected by fetal ultrasound or post-mortem. Prenatal diagnosis by maternal blood sampling and fetal cells or DNA analysis is now part of routine clinical practice in selected cases, such as fetal sexing in families affected by an X linked disease. Thus one can select those pregnancies eligible to invasive prenatal diagnosis. Pre implantation diagnosis, which has not been legal in France until 1999 is now increasingly used as an alternative to first trimester diagnosis. As for fetal therapy, a major recent breakthrough is the prenatal management of twin to twin transfusion syndrome by either amnioreduction or laser coagulation of inter-twin vascular shunts. In addition, new pathophysiologic concepts involving the renin angiotestin system could lead to further therapeutic innovations. A European randomised trial is now being completed to establish the respective indications of drainage and Laser. All this underscores that fetal medicine is no longer solely a succession of dramatic technical breakthroughs, but is entered an era of large-scale diffusion that requires evidence based evaluation.