The role of fetal nuchal translucency and ductus venosus Doppler at 11-14 weeks of gestation in the detection of major congenital heart defects. To determine whether, in a selected high-risk population, Doppler velocimetry of the ductus venosus can improve the predictive capacity of increased nuchal translucency in the detection of major congenital heart defects in chromosomally normal fetuses at 11-14 weeks of gestation.Ductus venosus Doppler ultrasound blood velocity waveforms were obtained prospectively at 11-14 weeks of gestation in 1040 consecutive singleton pregnancies. Waveforms were classified either as normal in the presence of a positive A-wave, or as abnormal if the A-wave was absent or negative. All cases were screened for chromosomal defects by a combination of maternal age and fetal nuchal translucency thickness. In 484 cases karyotyping was performed. Those fetuses found to be chromosomally normal by prenatal cytogenetic analysis, and which had abnormally increased nuchal translucency and/or abnormal ductus venosus Doppler velocimetry, underwent fetal echocardiography at 14-16 weeks of gestation. Ultrasound examination was repeated at 22-24 weeks of gestation in all women. The sensitivity, specificity and positive and negative predictive values for the detection of major cardiac defects of increased nuchal translucency thickness alone, ductus venosus Doppler alone and increased nuchal translucency thickness in association with abnormal ductus venosus Doppler were determined.In 29 of 998 fetuses presumed to be chromosomally normal, reversed or absent flow during atrial contraction was associated with increased (> 95(th) centile for crown-rump length) nuchal translucency. Major cardiac defects were observed in 9 of these 29 fetuses. No other major cardiac abnormalities were found in chromosomally normal fetuses in spite of the presence of either increased nuchal translucency alone or abnormal ductus venosus velocimetry. A total of 25 cardiac malformations were observed in the population. Fifteen were associated with aneuploidy and 10 fetuses had a normal karyotype. Nine of the 10 had major cardiac anomalies and one had a ventricular septal defect. The nine cases with normal karyotype and major cardiac anomalies had both increased nuchal translucency and abnormal ductus venosus flow velocity waveforms.In chromosomally normal fetuses with increased nuchal translucency, assessment of ductus venosus blood flow velocimetry could improve the predictive capacity for an underlying major cardiac defect.