The differentially expressed C21orf5 gene in the medial temporal-lobe system could play a role in mental retardation in Down syndrome and transgenic mice. Mental retardation represents the more invalidating pathological aspect of Down syndrome, DS, and has a hard impact in public health. Modifications in DS brain, concerning abnormal size, neuronal differentiation, and cell density, cause changes in the neurophysiology and behavior of DS patients, and could be determined by dosage imbalance of genes localized in the DS critical region, DCR. Among these genes, C21orf5 showed high homology with Caenorhabditis elegans Pad1 involved in cellular differentiation and patterning. To shed light on C21orf5 role in DS, we performed molecular characterization of human and mouse orthologs, their spatio-temporal expression during development and in adult, and overexpression in DS and transgenic mice. C21orf5 was widely expressed early in embryogenesis in the nervous system. Later, its expression became differential and increased in mesencephalon and rhomboencephalon. This developmental expression profile evolves selectively in adult brain with higher signals in hippocampus, cerebellum, perirhinal, and entorhinal cortex, compared to the other cortical regions. Cellular specificity was detected in hippocampus with higher C21orf5 mRNA level in CA3 cells. Our findings appoint C21orf5 as candidate gene for mental retardation: Its overexpression in DS cells may contribute to gene imbalance in DS.Its specific expression in normal and its mirroring pattern in transgenic mice correspond to abnormal regions in DS patients and to neurological phenotype of transgenic mice. Altered cortical lamination in transgenic mice and the Pad1 ortholog function suggest a potential role of C21orf5 in cell differentiation. Its patterned differential expression in the medial temporal-lobe system, including hippocampal formation and perirhinal cortex involved in memory storage, and learning and memory defects in the transgenic mice suggest a specialized role for C21orf5 in cognitive processes. These evidences suggest that C21orf5 is an attractive candidate gene contributing to neurological alterations responsible for mental retardation in DS patients.