Uptake of invasive prenatal diagnostic tests in women after detection of soft markers for chromosomal abnormality on ultrasonographic evaluation. Use of soft ultrasonographic markers during routine prenatal ultrasonography (USG) may be used for the screening of aneuploidy in the low-risk population. The aim of this study was to evaluate the acceptance of an invasive test for prenatal diagnosis and to assess the role of various factors in the decision-making regarding an invasive test when confronted with risk for aneuploidy after a soft marker is detected on routine antenatal ultrasonogram.Women were referred for USG in our department by primary obstetricians for indications such as a previous child with a congenital malformation, genetic disorder, stillbirth or in women with recurrent spontaneous abortions. Some of the women were referred after prenatal detection of a soft marker on USG. They were screened for soft markers associated with chromosomal abnormality. They were counseled regarding the age-specific risk and the risk of aneuploidy after detection of a marker in comparison to the general population's risk of Down's syndrome. They were also counseled regarding the risk of a procedure-related abortion (0.5%) following an invasive procedure before their decision regarding the use of amniocentesis was made.Twenty women out of 50 (40%) opted for amniocentesis. Except in one case of trisomy 21 in a fetus with short femur and humerus, all others had normal karyotype. The uptake of the test was comparable between primigravida (33%), women with poor obstetric history (46%) and women with at least one normal live child (45%). There was no statistical difference in the uptake of invasive test based on gestational age as well. Uptake of amniocentesis was higher (78%) in cases with nuchal thickening as compared to other markers (35%).Ultrasonographic detection of soft markers is associated with a high frequency of uptake for invasive prenatal testing. Increased nuchal thickening is associated with a higher acceptance of amniocentesis. Maternal age, gestational age or previous obstetric history were not associated with the decision to undergo amniocentesis.