Etiology of nondisjunction in humans. Aneuploidy is the most common class of chromosome abnormality in humans, occurring in at least 0.3% of newborns and approximately 50% of spontaneous abortions. Considered as a class, it is the most common known cause of mental retardation and the leading cause of pregnancy loss. Despite the high frequency of aneuploidy, its obvious clinical importance, its severe impact on human reproduction, and the 35 years of research since the first human chromosome abnormality was described, we still know very little about its causes, let alone the contribution of environmental exposures. Recently, however, with the advent of molecular and molecular cytogenetic techniques and advances in reproductive biology, a body of evidence has been generated that is beginning to shed light on the incidence, origin, and etiology of human aneuploid conditions. The bulk of this evidence comes from two sources: 1) studies of the incidence of aneuploidy in the cells of origin, namely oocytes and sperm and 2) examinations of meiotic stage, parent of origin, and meiotic recombination in trisomic conceptuses, both liveborn and abortuses. Using a multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) approach, it is now possible to screen on extremely large number of human sperm to determine chromosome-specific rates of disomy. Likewise, because of the introduction in the past decade of in vitro fertilization technology, a population of human oocytes suitable for aneuploidy screening became available. The examination of the cells of origin of aneuploidy, the sperm and oocytes, has provided data on the incidence of chromosome aberrations and valuable insight into possible mechanisms of nondisjunction. Additionally, the recent identification of multiple, highly informative DNA polymorphisms on all human chromosomes has made the determination of parental origin and the analysis of recombination a straightforward matter. We now know that the vast majority of trisomic conceptuses are maternal in origin, that increased maternal age is associated with nondisjunction, and that the amount and position of recombination on nondisjoined chromosomes is altered. In this review we will restrict discussions to these recent developments and to new models of the mechanism(s) of human nondisjunction based on the molecular cytogenetic analyses. Additionally, we will discuss the direction of future epidemiological research made possible through the development of molecular and molecular cytogenetic techniques. These technological advances have now allowed for a systematic search for genetic and environmental components to human nondisjunction.