Characteristics of multicentric hepatocellular carcinomas: comparison with intrahepatic metastasis. Characteristics of multicentric hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) remain obscure. We therefore aimed to clarify them and compare them with HCC with intrahepatic metastases. A series of 118 patients who had definite hepatitis C viral status and multinodular HCC were divided into two groups: a multicentric occurrence (MO) group (n = 38), with multicentric HCCs and an intrahepatic metastasis (IM) group (n = 80), with HCC having intrahepatic metastases. Clinicopathologic variables, including the patient's survival and disease-free survival rates, were compared between the MO and IM groups. Univariate analysis revealed the presence of esophageal varices, the presence of hepatitis C virus infection, a platelet count of less than 10 x 10(4)/microliter, hepaplastin test, gamma-globulin, the histologically active hepatitis, tumor size, des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin > 0.1 AU/ml, positive portal vein invasion, and histologic grade as discriminating factors. The MO score to differentiate multicentric HCCs from intrahepatic metastatic HCCs was determined using the following four independent factors selected by a stepwise regression analysis: the presence of hepatitis C virus infection, a platelet count of less than 10 x 10(4)/microliter, tumor size, and histologic grade. The sensitivity and specificity of the MO scores using those factors were 84% and 70%, respectively, when the cutoff value was 0.4. The disease-free survival rate in the MO group was similar to that in the IM group, whereas the survival rate in the MO group was significantly better than that in the IM group. The multivariate analysis revealed the multicentric occurrence of HCC as one of the independent prognostic factors. Clinicopathologic factors differentiating multicentric HCCs from intrahepatic metastatic HCCs were the presence of hepatitis C virus infection, a platelet count of less than 10 x 10(4)/microliter, small tumor size, and low histologic grade.