Long term results of percutaneous catheter drainage of pancreatic pseudocysts. Percutaneous catheter drainage (PCD) has become an established and often preferred alternative to surgical treatment in the management of pancreatic pseudocysts. However, the long term results of percutaneous drainage of pancreatic pseudocysts remain uncertain. In an effort to determine the long term outcome of this therapy, 42 patients undergoing PCD of a pancreatic pseudocyst were analyzed retrospectively. Forty-two pancreatic pseudocysts were drained percutaneously in 42 patients. Sixty-seven percutaneous drainage procedures were performed--22 patients underwent one, 15 had two and five patients required three procedures. Percutaneous drainage was considered not to be effective when the pseudocyst persisted or when it recurred after initial resolution. Twenty-three pseudocysts were infected at the time of drainage and 19 were not infected. In 30 patients, the cause of the pseudocyst was alcoholic pancreatitis. There were no deaths related to the procedures and seven complications occurred, including hemorrhage, pancreatic fistula and empyema. Mean follow-up evaluation time of the patients was ten months. In nine patients, the pseudocyst was successfully drained and resolved. There were 33 treatment failures, among which 26 pseudocysts failed to resolve and seven recurred after initial resolution. Eventually, 25 patients underwent a surgical procedure, 20 for persistent pseudocyst and five for recurrence. Using contingency table analysis, the size of the pseudocyst, amount of fluid drained, amylase concentration in the aspirate, presence of infection, number of drainage procedures performed and duration of catheter drainage had no influence on the likelihood of success in long term pseudocyst resolution after PCD. Pseudocysts not related to alcoholic pancreatitis seemed to be less likely (p < 0.05) to resolve with percutaneous drainage than those caused by alcohol. PCD is a safe and valuable procedure in the acute management of patients with pancreatic pseudocyst. However, the current data suggest that despite early success with percutaneous drainage, the lack of resolution and recurrence rate of pancreatic pseudocyst is high. Therefore, it should not be considered as the definitive form of therapy in most patients. Close surveillance of patients undergoing percutaneous drainage and communication between surgeons and radiologists are critical in the management of pancreatic pseudocysts.