Distal splenorenal shunt with partial spleen resection. Hypersplenism is a common complication of portal hypertension. Cytopenia in hypersplenism is predominantly caused by splenomegaly. Distal splenorenal shunt (Warren) with partial spleen resection is an original surgical technique that regulates cytopenia by reduction of the enlarged spleen.The aim of our study was to present the advantages of distal splenorenal shunt (Warren) with partial spleen resection comparing morbidity and mortality in a group of patients treated by distal splenorenal shunt with partial spleen resection with a group of patients treated only by a distal splenorenal shunt.From 1995 to 2003, 41 patients with portal hypertension were surgically treated due to hypersplenism and oesophageal varices. The first group consisted of 20 patients (11 male, mean age 42.3 years) who were treated by distal splenorenal shunt with partial spleen resection. The second group consisted of 21 patients (13 male, mean age 49.4 years) that were treated by distal splenorenal shunt only. All patients underwent endoscopy and assessment of oesophageal varices. The size of the spleen was evaluated by ultrasound, CT or by scintigraphy. Angiography was performed in all patients. The platelet and white blood cell count and haemoglobin level were registered. Postoperatively, we noted blood transfusion, complications and total hospital stay. Follow-up period was 12 months, with first checkup after one month.In the first group, only one patient had splenomegaly postoperatively (5%), while in the second group there were 13 patients with splenomegaly (68%). Before surgery, the mean platelet count in the first group was 51.6 +/- 18.3 x 10(9)/l, to 118.6 +/- 25.4 x 10(9)/l postoperatively. The mean platelet count in the second group was 67.6 +/- 22.8 x 10(9)/l, to 87.8 +/- 32.1 x 10(9)/l postoperatively. Concerning postoperative splenomegaly, statistically significant difference was noted between the first and the second group (p < 0.05). Comparing the postoperative platelet count between the first and second group, we found that there was a very significant statistical difference, too (p < 0.01).Distal splenorenal shunt (Warren) with partial spleen resection is a very reliable surgical technique in treatment of hypersplenism and decompression of oesophageal varices caused by portal hypertension and has advantage in treatment of hypersplenism over the distal splenorenal shunt method.