Laparoscopic splenectomy and periesophagogastric devascularization with endoligature for portal hypertension in children. Bleeding from esophagogastric varices is an importment complication of portal hypertension. Recently, significant progress in laparoscopic technology has enabled the devascularization of the lower esophagus and upper stomach in a less invasive way. In this article, we report our preliminary experience with laparoscopic splenectomy and periesophagogastric devascularization by endoligature and its effectiveness for bleeding varices with hypersplenism in children.Six children with bleeding portal hypertension and developed severe thrombocytopenia and/or leukopenia underwent laparoscopic splenectomy and selective pericardial devascularization by using silk endoligature combined with a Harmonic Scalpel (Ethicon Endosurgery, Cincinnati, OH). The patients included 5 males and 1 female, who ranged in age from 8 to 17 years. After a massive splenectomy was performed, we devascularized the periesophagogastric collateral vessels and perforating veins of the upper stomach to the level of the incisura angularis and the lower esophagus 5 or 6 cm away from the esophagocardia junction. The stem of the gastric coronary vein and paraesophageal collateral veins were not dissected in order to reserve portal blood flow toward the azygous shunt.All the procedures were completed successfully under a whole laparoscope. The operative time ranged from 180 to 270 minutes. Intraoperative blood loss was estimated to be from 80 to 200 mL. None of the patients required a blood transfusion. There were no significant complications either intra- operatively or postoperatively, and all patients had returned to usual activity by 5 days. Postoperative platelet count and white blood cell count increased in individual patients. The data were statistically significant (p = 0.006 and 0.002, respectively). During a postoperative follow-up period of 8-40 months, all children were asymptomatic, with improved growth and hematology and no rebleeding, sepsis, or encephalopathy.Laparoscopic massive splenectomy with selective periesophagogastric devascularization is a feasible, effective, and safe surgical procedure and has all the benefits of minimally invasive surgery. It offers a new alternative modality for children with bleeding portal hypertension and hypersplenism.