Partial splenic embolization using Bletilla striata particles for hypersplenism in cirrhosis: a prospective study. The article evaluates the long-term follow-up results of PSE using Bletilla striata (BS) particles for hypersplenism in cirrhosis, as compared to PSE using gelfoam particles. Fifty-nine patients with cirrhosis-induced hypersplenism were treated with PSE. The patients were randomly assigned into two groups: gelfoam group, which includes 32 patients using gelfoam particles as the embolic material, and BS group, which includes 27 patients using BS particles. The peripheral blood cell counts and parameters for complications associated with PSE were measured during the follow-up. The mean values of leukocyte and thrombocyte, but not hemoglobin, were significantly increased after PSE (p < 0.01) in both groups. The values of leukocyte and thrombocyte during the long-term follow-up were significantly improved in BS group than that in gelfoam group (both p < 0.01). The frequency of bleeding episodes from esophageal varices in both groups was significantly reduced after PSE (both p < 0.01), but the post-PSE bleeding episodes showed no remarkable differences between the two groups (p = 0.084). Post-embolization syndrome consisted mainly of fever, nausea and vomiting, and abdominal pain in the two groups. The incidence of grade II to III abdominal pain in BS group (82.8%, 27/33) was significantly higher than in gelfoam group (57.9%, 33/57) (p = 0.020). The mean survival time was 61.5 ± 9.1 (median 60, 1-157) months in gelfoam group and 63.4 ± 9.9 (median 52, 0-161) months in BS group, which showed no significant difference (p = 0.930). In conclusion, BS particles could be used as the embolic material in PSE. Compared to gelfoam used in PSE, BS can achieve even better efficacy in alleviating hypersplenism. It provides a long-term effect on the hematological parameters, bleeding from esophageal varices and good palliation, and improved clinical status contributing to symptomatic control.