Liver cirrhosis--procoagulant stasis. Abnormal hemostasis tests and bleeding are often associated in liver cirrhosis. In these patients the balance between hypo- and hypercoagulation status is more fragile than in healthy people. In the hemostatic abnormalities associated with chronic liver disease are two main chategory factors: favoring hemorrage and favoring thrombosis. The main factors that favoring hemorrage are: low platelet count, impaired platelet function, decreased levels coagulation factors (II, V, VII, IX, X, XI), quantitative and qualitative abnormalities of fibrinogen, vitamin K defiency, low levels of trombin activable fibrinolisis inhibitor, activat plasminogenic tisular. The factors favoring thrombosis are elevated levels of factors VIII and von Willebrand, decreased levels of protein C, protein S, antithrombin, decreased levels of plasminogen. Traditionally it was thought that arterial and venous thrombosis is rare events in cirrhotic patients but recent studies have indicated that thrombotic complications can paradoxically occur even if clinically an increased risk of hemorrhage is considered. Treatment of venous thrombosis in patients with cirrhosis using routine anticoagulation with heparin and vitamin K antagonists has been described but with a high level of bleeding complications. So, based on the limited data available, AASLD guidelines stated no recommendations for or against the use of anticoagulation in cirrhotic patients with portal thrombosis. Although abnormal hemostasis tests and bleeding are often associated in patients with chronic liver disease it is a relatively poor correlation between hemorrhagic risk and routine diagnostic tests of hemostasis. Management of bleeding complications in liver cirrhosis varies and no general guidelines are available. The main therapeutic strategies are: red cell concentrate, plasma, platelet concentrate, recombinant factor VIIa, factor concentrates, desmopressin, antifibrynolitic agents, thrombopoietin receptor agonists, antibiotics. Clinical studies examining safety and efficacy of the various products for the different bleedeing or trombotic complications of liver cirrhosis need to be initiaded.