Intermittent negative pressure external drainage of the pancreatic duct reduces the incidence of postoperative pancreatic fistula after pancreaticojejunostomy. The formation of a pancreatic fistula remains one of the serious morbidities after pancreaticojejunostomy. This study is focused on the efficacy of negative pressure external drainage of the main pancreatic duct in pancreaticojejunostomy.Fifty-eight consecutive patients who underwent pancreaticojejunostomy at our hospital from May 2008 to May 2012 were enrolled in this study. They were divided into a group of 25 earlier patients (Group A) with gravity drainage of the pancreatic duct (from May 2008 until May 2010) and a group of 33 later patients (Group B) with negative pressure drainage (treated from June 2010 until May 2012). These two groups were compared based on the patient characteristics, parameters related to the operation, and postoperative complications and hospital stay. Furthermore, examinations were performed for subgroups of patients with a soft pancreas (43 patients) or a hard pancreas (15 patients) based on the hardness of the remnant pancreas.There were no statistically significant differences between the two groups in the patient demographics, laboratory data or parameters related to the operation. Although there was no difference in the amount of drainage from the pancreaticojejunostomy, the amylase values in the drainage around the pancreaticojejunostomy of group B were significantly lower than those of group A (p = 0.026). The complication rates were also significantly lower in group B than in group A for the development of a postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF) (p = 0.012), intraabdominal abscess (p = 0.045), or wound infection (p = 0.01). There were no statistically significant differences between the two groups in the mean hospital stay. When restricted to patients with a soft pancreas, the incidence of POPF (grade B or C) of group B was significantly lower than that of group A (p = 0.003). The P-value for the soft pancreas group was lower than that of the overall cases. In the examination restricted to patients with a hard pancreas, POPF (grade B or C) did not occur in either group.This retrospective study showed that the application of intermittent negative pressure external drainage of the main pancreatic duct significantly reduces the rate of pancreatic fistula and intra-abdominal abscess formation after pancreaticojejunostomy, and these effects were more remarkable in the patients with a soft pancreas.