Management of cervical premalignant lesions. Management of cervical preneoplasia starts with an abnormal smear result. The use of the Bethesda system is recommended. The management of patients with low-grade abnormal smear results varies around the world. Patients with atypical squamous cells on cytology are recommended to be subclassified into atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASCUS) and atypical squamous cells where high-grade squamous intra-epithelial lesions (HSIL) cannot be excluded (ASCH) groups. While patients with ASCUS can be followed with cytology or colposcopy, the risk of having cervical intra-epithelial neoplasia (CIN) is higher in patients with ASCH. Such patients, as well as those with low-grade squamous intra-epithelial lesions on cytology, should be referred for colposcopy to ensure that diagnosis and treatment in CIN is detected. Patients with HSIL should be referred promptly for colposcopic assessment. This should, usually at the same clinic visit, be followed by large loop excision of the transformation zone (LLETZ). Although this is effective treatment, around 15% of patients will have persistent/recurrent disease on cytological follow-up. Patients with positive human papillomavirus DNA tests at follow-up seem to have a considerably higher risk of recurrent preneoplasia than those who have negative tests. Patients over 50 years of age have much higher recurrence risks than younger patients. These factors impact on second-line treatment and follow-up schedules. An important benefit of conservative treatment for CIN with LLETZ is retention of fertility. LLETZ is associated with an increased risk of preterm prelabour rupture of membranes and preterm birth, but not with other adverse pregnancy outcome measures. Conservative excisional management of adenocarcinoma in situ by LLETZ or cold knife cone biopsy is not reported to be as effective as that of CIN, with high risk of residual and recurrent disease at follow-up. Conversely, LLETZ may be acceptable treatment for micro-invasive squamous carcinoma if the excision margins are free of disease and there is no evidence of lymphovascular involvement. The ability to detect and treat premalignant lesions on the cervix reversed the natural history of cervical cancer. Methods of conservative treatment that evolved over decades have been proven safe and effective, allowing retention of fertility. Good clinical guidelines have been developed for most clinical scenarios while some uncertainties persist for other scenarios.