Human papillomavirus testing with a liquid-based system: feasibility and comparison with reference diagnoses. To validate the utilization of cervical specimens collected in the fixative liquid used in the CYTO-screen System (SEROA, Monaco) for oncogenic human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA detection by the Hybrid Capture II technique (HCII) (Digene, Gaithersburg, Maryland, U.S.A) by reference to cytologic and/or histologic results.A technical feasibility study was conducted on 3 modalities of sample preparation before HCII technique, 1 with a proteinase digestion, I with PBS washing and I using the Digene sample conversion kit recommended for ThinPrep medium preparation (Cytyc Corp., Boxborough, Massachusetts, U.S.A.). The stability of cells after storage at days 28, 60 and 90 was tested on 26 positive samples (13 with high initial indices and 13 with low initial indices). Results of HPV testing were compared to cytologic and histologic results on a sample of 98 smears already identified as high grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (HSIL) (48) or low grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (LSIL) (50). A retrospective analysis was then performed on 995 HPV tests perfornmed routinely in 2003 in terms of comparison with the corresponding cytologic and/or histologic results.The HCII technique after direct treatment by proteinase K appeared to be as effective as the Digene sample conversion kit. By using the first technique, all 26 positive cases remained positive at 60 days, but 4 of 13 (30%) with low indices became negative at 90 days. The sensitivity of HPV testing for detecting biopsy- proven cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 2 or worse was 100% in the 50 LSIL and 98% in the 48 HSIL samples. In the retrospective study (n = 995), the cytologic diagnoses of atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASC-US) (n=278), LSIL (n = 137) and HSIL (n = 28) were associated with a positive HPVtest in 44%, 75% and 96% of cases, respectively. On a subsample of 156 patients among 278 with a diagnosis of ASC- US, the sensitivity of HPV testingfor detecting CIN 2 or worse was 88%, specificity 57%, positive predictive value 10% and negative predictive value 99%. Performing HPV testing by the HCII technique for cervical specimens collected in the fixative liquid used in the CYTO-screen System is feasible in the context of an ASC-US cytologic diagnosis.