Comparison of the cervical cytology test using the PAPNET method and conventional microscopy. From August 1994 to June 1995, laboratories in 28 Mexican states and the Federal District submitted a total of 10098 diagnosed Pap test slides to Mexico's National Institute of Epidemiologic Diagnosis and Reference (INDRE) for reexamination by conventional methods and also by the automated PAPNET system in Suffern, New York, U.S.A. The aim was to determine the degree of agreement obtained by these various methods. Most of the slides examined (at least 78%) yielded negative results or merely indicated an inflammatory process 8% to 14% indicated mild or moderate cervical dysplasiaComparison of cervical smear analyses conducted in Mexican  laboratories through conventional microscopy with the results of quality control studies conducted by the National Institute of Epidemiologic Diagnosis and Reference (INDRE) using both conventional and automated (PAPNET) methods revealed an alarming lack of agreement.  A total of 10,098 slides prepared by technicians working at state public health laboratories in 28 Mexican states and the federal district were reviewed.  Most slides (about 78%) yielded negative results or an inflammatory process 8-14% indicated mild or moderate cervical dysplasia, and 2-3% revealed severe dysplasia or cervical cancer.  The Kappa correlation coefficient for agreement between positive and negative diagnoses made by the states and INDRE was 0.62, near the lower limit, while comparison of diagnoses made by INDRE and PAPNET produced a coefficient of 0.80, near the upper limit.  Diagnostic agreement between state laboratories and INDRE was greatest (93%) with slides classified as normal or exhibiting inflammatory changes.  Agreement rates were lowest when it was necessary to differentiate degrees of abnormality: unspecified carcinoma (13.3%), invasive carcinoma (51.4%), and moderate dysplasia (63.1%).  PAPNET generated substantially more false-negative results than traditional microscopy performed either by INDRE or the states and underestimated the presence of human papillomavirus virus, Candida infection, and trichomoniasis.  Inadequate fixing, staining, and mounting of the slides compromised PAPNET analysis.  Overall, these findings indicate a need to improve the quality of cervical cytology diagnoses at state laboratories through increased training and supervision.