Identification of tobacco-specific carcinogen in the cervical mucus of smokers and nonsmokers. In 1996, an estimated 15,700 new cases of cancer of the uterine cervix and 4,900 deaths from this disease were expected to occur in the United States. In a recent international study, human papillomavirus DNA was found in more than 90% of cervical tumor specimens examined, irrespective of the nationality of the patients from whom the samples were obtained. Although infection with human papillomavirus is the major known risk factor for the development of cervical cancer, it alone is not sufficient. Other etiologic factors that have been associated with this disease include deficiencies in micronutrients, lower socioeconomic status, oral contraceptive use, and cigarette smoking. Several compounds from cigarette smoke (nicotine and its major metabolite, cotinine) have been identified in cervical mucus, and the occurrence of smoking-related DNA damage in the cervical epithelium has been documented.This investigation was conducted to determine for the first time whether carcinogenic tobacco-specific N-nitrosamines are present in the cervical mucus of cigarette smokers and of nonsmokers (most likely as a result of environmental exposure).Cervical mucus specimens from 15 smokers and 10 nonsmokers were subjected to supercritical fluid extraction with the use of carbon dioxide that contained 10% methanol, and the resultant extracts were analyzed for tobacco-specific nitrosamines by use of a very sensitive method that involved gas chromatography and mass spectroscopy analyses.In a total of 16 samples obtained from 15 women who were current smokers (two samples from the same woman), we detected the tobacco-specific nitrosamine 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) at concentrations that ranged from 11.9 to 115.0 ng/g of mucus. Only one of a total of 10 cervical mucus specimens obtained from 10 women who claimed to be nonsmokers did not contain detectable NNK, and NNK concentrations ranged from 4.1 to 30.8 ng/g of mucus in the specimens from the remaining nine women. The concentrations of NNK in specimens from cigarette smokers were significantly higher than those from nonsmokers (mean +/- standard deviation: 46.9 +/- 32.5 ng/g of mucus versus 13.0 +/- 9.3 ng/g of mucus two-tailed Student's t test, P = .004).The cervical mucus of cigarette smokers contains measurable amounts of the potent carcinogen NNK. This compound represents the first tobacco-specific carcinogen identified in this physiologic fluid of women who smoke cigarettes. The presence of NNK in the cervical mucus of nonsmokers is likely due to environmental exposure or to the fact that some of the subjects in this study may not have revealed that they occasionally smoked cigarettes.The presence of NNK in human cervical mucus further strengthens the association between cervical cancer and tobacco smoking.