F-18-FDG positron imaging in oncological patients: gamma camera coincidence detection versus dedicated PET. Of the present study was to investigate the feasibility of 2-[fluorine-18]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) imaging in oncological patients with a dual head gamma camera modified for coincidence detection (MCD).Phantom studies were done to determine lesion detection at various lesion-to-background ratios, system sensitivity and spatial resolution. Thirty-two patients with suspected or known malignant disease were first studied with a dedicated full-ring PET system (DPET) applying measured attenuation correction and subsequently with an MCD system without attenuation correction. MCD images were first interpreted without knowledge of the DPET findings. In a second reading, MCD and DPET were evaluated simultaneously.The phantom studies revealed a comparable spatial resolution for DPET and MCD (5.9 x 6.3 x 4.2 mm vs. 5.9 x 6.5 x 6.0 mm). System sensitivity of MCD was less compared to DPET (91 cps/Bq/ml/cmFOV vs. 231 cps/Bq/ml/cmFOV). At a lesion-to-background ratio of 4:1, DPET depicted a minimal phantom lesion of 1.0 cm in diameter, MCD a minimal lesion of 1.6 cm. With DPET, a total of 91 lesions in 27 patients were classified as malignant. MCD without knowledge of DPET results revealed increased FDG uptake in all patients with positive DPET findings. MCD detected 72 out of 91 DPET lesions (79.1%). With knowledge of the DPET findings, 11 additional lesions were detected (+12%). MCD missed lesions in six patients with relevance for staging in two patients. All lesions with a diameter above 18 mm were detected.MCD FDG imaging yielded results comparable to dedicated PET in most patients. However, a considerable number of small lesions clearly detectable with DPET were not detected by MCD alone. Therefore, MCD cannot yet replace dedicated PET in all oncological FDG studies. Further technical refinement of this new method is needed to improve image quality (e.g. attenuation correction).