Comparison of left ventricular function at rest and post-stress in patients with myocardial infarction: Evaluation with gated SPECT. Quantitative electrocardiogram-gated single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) myocardial imaging (QGS) is a means of providing functional information about the left ventricle and myocardial perfusion. However, the functional information derived 30 minutes post-stress may be different from the left ventricular (LV) function determined at rest. This study determined whether LV function post-stress would be different from LV function at rest in patients with an earlier myocardial infarction.LV perfusion and ejection fraction (LVEF), were determined by means of both the rest and post-stress acquisition in 58 patients with an earlier myocardial infarction and in 23 patients with a low likelihood of coronary artery disease by using technetium-99m tetrofosmin and the QGS program. The interobserver and intraobserver variability of LVEF was excellent, within a margin of 2%. No significant differences in LVEF were observed between post-stress and rest in the 23 patients with a low likelihood of disease (DeltaLVEF, 0.04% +/- 3.2%, P = not significant). Conversely, the patients with an earlier myocardial infarction showed a significantly lower LVEF post-stress, compared with that at rest (DeltaLVEF, -1.9% +/- 4.2%, P =.002). In 33 patients (57%), the LVEF post-stress was 2% or more lower than the LVEF at rest. Furthermore, reversible ischemia, which was present in 16 patients (28%), did not interact with the DeltaLVEF post-stress, compared with the DeltaLVEF at rest (P = not significant). Parameters such as the stress modality (adenosine stress or exercise), the number of stenosed vessels, or the perfusion defect severity score did not influence the DeltaLVEF post-stress, compared with the DeltaLVEF at rest.In patients with an earlier myocardial infarction, LV function post-stress may not represent the true resting LV function. Consequently, this result justifies the stratification of patients before starting the gated SPECT study. In patients with an earlier myocardial infarction, the gated acquisition should be performed during the rest study.