Iodine supplementation in Austria: methods and results. Until 1963 Austria was an extremely iodine-deficient area with low iodine intake and high goiter prevalence. Therefore, for the first time in 1963, salt iodination with 10 mg of potassium iodide per kilogram of salt was introduced by federal law. Twenty years after this salt iodination, however, investigations in schoolchildren demonstrated iodine deficiency grade I to II according to the World Health Organization (WHO) (urinary iodine excretion, 42-75 microg/g Crea) and goiter prevalence of far more than 10%. In 1990, salt iodination was increased to 20 mg of potassium iodide per kilogram of salt. In 1994, further investigations in schoolchildren demonstrated an increase of urinary iodine excretion (121 microg/g Crea) and a reduction of goiter prevalence below 5%, with the exception of pupils ages 14-19 (12%). In the year 2000, 10 years after the increase of salt iodination in Austria, 430 nonselected adult inhabitants of three communities in Carinthia (a county of Austria) were investigated for iodine excretion, goiter prevalence, and prevalence of thyroid autoantibodies. This study demonstrated that although iodine supply is sufficient now in Austria (males, 163.7 microg of Crea females, 183.3 microg of iodine per gram of Crea), goiter prevalence is still high in the elderly, who lived for a longer period of iodine deficiency (34.3% in women and 21.3% in men), whereas goiter prevalence in younger people up to age 40 years is below 5%. It could also be shown that the percentage of thyroid autoantibodies is now as high as in other countries with sufficient iodine supply (3.19% in males, 5.17% in females). In addition to the changes of urinary iodine excretion and goiter prevalence because of salt iodination, changes of incidence in hyperthyroidism and histologic types of thyroid cancer are discussed in this paper. In conclusion, the introduction of salt iodination led to an improvement in iodine supply with a marked reduction of goiter prevalence in people who were born after 1963, but also to an increase in hyperthyroidism and autoimmune thyroid diseases as well as changes in histologic types of thyroid cancer.