The Dipolar ElectroCARdioTOpographic (DECARTO)-like method for graphic presentation of location and extent of area at risk estimated from ST-segment deviations in patients with acute myocardial infarction. A graphic method was developed for presentation of the location and extent of the myocardium at risk in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). This method is based on a mathematical processing of ST-segment deviations of standard 12-lead electrocardiogram following the concept of Titomir and Ruttkay-Nedecky in their dipolar electrocardiotopographic method. The center of the location of the area at risk is given by the spatial orientation of the resultant spatial ST vector, and the extent of the area at risk is derived from the Aldrich score. The areas at risk are projected on a spherical image surface, on which a texture of the anatomical quadrants of the ventricular surface and its coronary artery supply are projected. The method was tested in 10 patients with AMI with single-vessel disease, including 6 patients with an occlusion in the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD), 3 patients with an occlusion in the right coronary artery, and one patient with occlusion in the left circumflex coronary artery. The estimated areas at risk were compared with myocardial perfusion single photon emission computed tomography. Eight (80%) patients of 10 were correctly localized according to the Aldrich decision rules for the location of AMI. The areas at risk in patients with LAD occlusion correctly localized by the Aldrich score were situated in the anteroseptal and anterosuperior quadrants. In the inferior AMI group, the area at risk was localized in the posterolateral and inferior quadrants. The visual comparison with myocardial perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) showed best agreement in patients with LAD involvement. The initial testing showed that this method allows a graphic presentation of estimated area at risk using clinically defined diagnostic rules. The area at risk can be displayed in images that are familiar for clinicians and can be compared with or superimposed on results of other imaging methods used in cardiology.