Prognostic significance of stress myocardial gated SPECT among Japanese patients referred for coronary angiography: A study of data from the J-ACCESS database. The J-ACCESS [Japanese investigation of prognosis based on gated single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)] study found that quantitative gated myocardial SPECT (QGS) is valuable for predicting the prognosis of Japanese patients with known or suspected ischaemic heart disease. The present study evaluates the incremental prognostic value of myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) with QGS among patients referred for coronary angiography (CAG).Among 4,031 Japanese patients registered at 117 hospitals for the J-ACCESS study, we selected 1,011 who underwent CAG within 3 months before or after MPI with QGS. Summed stress, rest and difference scores (SSS, SRS and SDS) were generated from myocardial perfusion images using a 20-segment scoring system. Myocardial ischaemia was judged visually. End-diastolic volume (EDV), end-systolic volume (ESV) and ejection fraction (EF) were determined by QGS. Numbers of diseased (> 75% stenosis) coronary vessels (CDV) were assessed by CAG. All patients were followed up for 3 years to determine cardiac events (CE) including cardiac death, non-fatal myocardial infarction and severe heart failure. Univariate and multivariate analyses of prognostic ability included age, cardiac risk factors (hypertension, hyperlipidaemia, diabetes mellitus and prior myocardial infarction), angiographic findings and the QGS parameters as independent variables.Cardiac events occurred more frequently with increasing numbers of coronary vessel lesions (p = 0.0016). Cox univariate analysis revealed that diabetes, CDV, SSS, SDS, EDV, ESV and EF were significant predictors (Wald chi(2) = 5.99, 12.9, 8.39, 9.11, 35.5, 42.1 and 31.1, respectively), whereas multivariate analysis selected only ESV and SDS as significant predictors (Wald chi(2) = 36.4, 8.4 p = 0.0038, p < 0.001).MPI with QGS, especially with gated functional data, has incremental prognostic value in addition to angiographic findings. MPI with QGS findings predominantly contribute to the prediction of prognosis rather than numbers of diseased vessels assessed by CAG. Thus, MPI with QGS is the most useful tool with which to guide decisions regarding therapy even among patients referred for CAG.