A neurofunctional evaluation strategy for presurgical selection of temporal lobe epilepsy patients. Introduction Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is the prototype of a surgically correctable syndrome. Successful surgical outcomes depend on a thorough presurgical evaluation aimed primarily at identifying the epileptogenic zone. Objective Describe the noninvasive presurgical selection and evaluation strategy for TLE patients introduced at the International Neurological Restoration Center (CIREN) in Havana, Cuba, and evaluated between 2001 and 2006 for its accuracy in identifying candidates for non-lesional resection surgery. Methods Ictal onset electrographic patterns of 1,679 seizures in 72 patients with drug-resistant partial epilepsy, obtained through longterm scalp Video EEG (V-EEG) monitoring, were evaluated. The correlation between the V-EEG-defined epileptogenic zone and the dysfunction shown by single photon emission computed tomography (ictal and interictal brain SPECT) and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) was established. Results V-EEG monitoring determined that 44.4% of evaluated patients had complex partial temporal lobe seizures. Identification of patients with medial temporal epilepsy (MTE) increased as a result of lateralization and localization of the dominant mean ictal pattern frequency (5.56 ± 1.31 Hz) during the period of maximum spectral power VARETA localization of an ictal epileptiform activity source coincided with the epileptogenic zone in all TLE patients who subsequently underwent a successful temporal lobectomy. Semiquantitative analysis of ictal and interictal brain SPECT images, as well as metabolic ratios measured by MRS, combined with V-EEG findings, enabled localization/lateralization of the epileptogenic zone in TLE patients whose MRIs were normal or showed bilateral structural abnormalities. Conclusions Confirmation of correct localization/lateralization of the epileptogenic zone following successful surgical outcomes in selected TLE patients led CIREN to develop a surgical treatment strategy for patients in Cuba with drug-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy. This strategy offers an appropriate, cost-effective treatment alternative for developing countries like Cuba, with the benefit of significantly improving TLE patients' quality of life.