Myocardial positron computed tomography using N-13 ammonia for evaluating coronary artery disease: comparison with thallium-201 emission computed tomography. To assess myocardial perfusion in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), N-13 ammonia positron computed tomography (PCT) was performed for 32 cases, and the PCT images were compared with those of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using thallium-201. Myocardial perfusion images were obtained with a whole-body multislice PCT device following the intravenous injection of 10 to 20 mCi N-13 ammonia at rest (32 cases) and during exercise (23 cases). Eleven cases underwent serial 15-20 second dynamic studies immediately following the N-13 ammonia injection. Serial dynamic study showed the blood-pool images in the first scan, and enabled assessment of tracer washout from the blood-pool, and the lung as well as washin into the myocardium. PCT provided clear resting myocardial perfusion images in all cases. PCT images were of higher quality than those of SPECT due to higher spatial resolution with less statistical noise, allowing delineation of the right ventricular myocardium and papillary muscles in many cases. Both PCT and SPECT detected perfusion abnormalities in 18 of the 19 cases with myocardial infarction, without false positive findings. PCT yielded stress myocardial images and permitted comparative evaluations of myocardial perfusions at rest and during exercise in all 23 cases. Perfusion abnormalities were detected in 14 cases (74%) at rest and in 18 cases (95%) during exercise among 19 patients with CAD. No false positives were observed, either by resting or stress PCT imaging. Stress myocardial PCT identified regional perfusion abnormalities in 30 of the 34 regions supplied by stenosed vessels (88%). High resolution PCT images enabled precise evaluation of myocardial perfusions which proved valuable for assessing myocardial perfusions before and after aorto-coronary bypass surgery. The present study proved advantages of N-13 ammonia PCT in creating three-dimensional high resolution images of the myocardium, which facilitates precise evaluation of myocardial perfusions. Furthermore, its potential capabilities in quantifying coronary reserve function will be very useful. This method should provide valuable pathophysiological information for CAD, as well as for metabolic PCT imaging.