Detection efficiency of colorectal carcinoma recurrence using technetium pertechnetate-anti-carcinoembryonic antigen monoclonal antibody BW 431/26. A new anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) antibody, BW 431/26 (Scintimun, Behring-Werke, Marburg, Germany), labeled with technetium pertechnetate (Tc-99m), is an intact immunoglobulin G1 monoclonal antibody that has been used to image colorectal cancer (CRC). This report is part of a prospective multicenter clinical trial initiated by the International Atomic Energy Agency to evaluate the role of this antibody in radioimmunoimaging of patients with suspected disease recurrence.A group of 31 consecutive patients underwent radioimmunoimaging with Tc-99m-BW 431/26 after resection of their primary CRC. Patient referral was based on either a persistent rise in serum CEA levels of unknown origin and/or questionable findings by other imaging studies. Whole-body planar scans and single photon emission computed tomography scans of selected body regions (e.g., chest, abdomen) were performed up to 24 hours after the intravenous antibody injection. Pathologic antibody concentration localizations by radioimmunoimaging were correlated with surgical, clinical, and other imaging modality findings to validate the accuracy of radioimmunoimaging in detecting CRC recurrence.A total of 75 detected tumoral lesions was evaluated: 26 of 75 were of known origin (36%), and 49 of 75 were of unknown origin (65%). There were four true-negative lesions, one false-negative lesion, and no false-positive lesions all others were true-positive lesions. Sensitivity was 96.8%, specificity 100%, and accuracy 98.6%. The study was easy to perform, without untoward side effects on patients after antibody administration.Anti-CEA antibody radioimmunoimaging is a highly reliable diagnostic procedure in detecting CRC recurrence and is useful especially for the diagnosis of patients with rising CEA blood levels of unknown origin, thereby significantly affecting patient management. Radioimmunoimaging should become part of the diagnostic workup of patients suspected of having CRC recurrence.