Colorectal cancer. Radiologic staging. The role of conventional CT scan and conventional MR imaging in assessing patients with colorectal tumors is now well established. Because both techniques have an unacceptably low accuracy for identifying the early stages of primary colorectal cancers (T1, T2N0 or N1 and early T3N0 or N1, or Dukes stage A, B1 and 2, and C1), their routine use for preoperative staging is not recommended. This low staging accuracy is related to the fact that neither method can assess the depth of tumor infiltration within the bowel wall and both have difficulty in diagnosing malignant adenopathy. These distinctions are necessary in order to determine correctly patient prognosis and tumor resectability. If the various publications on CT scan and MR imaging staging of primary colon tumors are summarized, a mean overall accuracy of approximately 70% can be established. The sensitivity for lymph node detection of malignant lymphadenopathy is only about 45%. The sensitivity for detection of positive lymph nodes is better for rectal tumors because any adenopathy in the perirectal area can be considered malignant because benign adenopathy is not seen in this area. For the early stages of colon cancer or recurrent tumor at the anastomotic site, endoscopic ultrasound or TRUS is the method of choice. Both TRUS and MR imaging with endorectal coils can demonstrate the various layers of the rectal wall, but the ultrasonographic examination can be performed at lower cost and is less time-consuming. Despite these limitations CT scan and MR imaging are useful for assessing patients suspected of having extensive disease, including invasion of fat or neighboring organs or metastatic spread to distant sites including, liver, adrenals, lung, and so forth. CT scan and MR imaging are also helpful in the following ways: in determining whether a patient will benefit from preoperative radiation or whether a patient with rectal cancer can undergo a sphincter-saving procedure for designing radiation ports