Auditory perception and language: functional imaging of speech sensitive auditory cortex. Since the description of cortical deafness, it has been known that the superior temporal cortex is bilaterally involved in the initial stages of language auditory perception but the precise anatomical limits and the function of this area remain debated. Here we reviewed more than 40 recent papers of positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging related to language auditory perception, and we performed a meta-analysis of the localization of the peaks of activation in the Talairach's space. We found 8 studies reporting word versus non-word listening contrasts with 54 activation peaks in the temporal lobes. These peaks clustered in a bilateral and well-limited area of the temporal superior cortex, which is here operationally defined as the speech sensitive auditory cortex. This area is more than 4cm long, located in the superior temporal gyrus and the superior temporal sulcus, both anterior and posterior to Heschl's gyrus. It do not include the primary auditory cortex nor the ascending part of the planum temporale. The speech sensitive auditory cortex is not activated by pure tones, environmental sounds, or attention directed toward elementary components of a sound such as intensity, pitch, or duration, and thus has some specificity for speech signals. The specificity is not perfect, since we found a number of non-speech auditory stimuli activating the speech sensitive auditory cortex. Yet the latter studies always involve auditory perception mechanisms which are also relevant to speech perception either at the level of primitive auditory scene analysis processes, or at the level of specific schema-based recognition processes. The dorsal part of the speech sensitive auditory cortex may be involved in primitive scene analysis processes, whereas distributed activation of this area may contribute to the emergence of a broad class of "voice" schemas and of more specific "speech schemas/phonetic modules" related to different languages. In addition, this area is activated by language-related lip movement, suggesting that a multimodal integration of the auditory and the visual information relevant in speech perception occurs at this level. Finally, there is a task-related top-down modulation of the pattern of activation of the speech sensitive auditory cortex which may reflect the fact that the different parts of this structure are connected to different down-stream cortical regions involved in the neural processing of different types of tasks.