Psychological evaluation test for infertile couples. The infertility can lead to various emotional changes (anxiety, depression, somatization, aggressiveness, etc.). The objective of the present study was to develop a psychological evaluation test (PET) in an attempt to identify couples requiring psychological support when they face the problem of infertility.A total of 251 infertile couples were submitted to the PET of the Center for Human Reproduction, "Sinhá Junqueira" Maternity Foundation. The causes of infertility were male-related in 45% of cases, female-related in 48%, and both male- and female-related in 7%. Infertility was primary in 74% of cases and secondary in 26%. The mean age of the women was 34 +/- 4.2 years and the mean age of the men was 36.8 +/- 6.5 years. The PET of the infertile couples was evaluated using a questionnaire with 15 questions selected in order to detect emotional reactions. The responses were assigned four grades with respect to frequency (1 = never or rarely 2 = sometimesThe mean PET score for women (27 +/- 8) was significantly higher (p < 0.01, Mann-Whitney test) than the PET score for men (22 +/- 7). The alpha coefficient of Cronbach was 0.88, and was identical for the female and male questionnaires.The data demonstrate that one of the characteristics of Brazilian infertile couples is that women are habitually more affected by the situation of infertility than men. The PET is a simple and efficient tool for the identification of women and/or men requiring psychological support due to infertility. The team of the Center for Human Reproduction (employees, biologists, nurses, doctors etc.) has started to use the information provided by the PET in the daily routine, and all patients are informed and counseled about the factors generating emotional changes in infertility. Advice is provided (practicing sports, traveling, activating personal projects etc.) in order to help combat distress. A specialized psychological evaluation was indicated in selected cases (PET score >30 points).