Experience with 123I-iomazenil SPECT in acute cerebral infarction. Neuronal cells are susceptible to cerebral ischaemia. As gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA(A)) receptors are specific for neurones, functional receptor imaging using I-iomazenil (IMZ), a ligand to the GABA benzodiazepine receptor, has been proposed as an imaging modality for the assessment of neuronal integrity. However, there is only limited experience with IMZ in patients with acute cerebral infarction. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate IMZ single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in patients with acute cerebral ischaemia. IMZ SPECT was performed in 21 patients with acute cerebral infarction 7-10 days after stroke onset. Eleven patients underwent systemic thrombolysis within 6 h after symptom onset (group 1), whereas 10 patients were treated conservatively (group 2). IMZ (150-200 MBq) was injected intravenously and imaging was performed using a dedicated four-head SPECT camera at 5 min (perfusion) and 90 min (receptor distribution) post-injection, with an acquisition time of 50 min each. Images were analysed by visual inspection. Four patients showed normal IMZ distribution, and 17 patients showed abnormalities of IMZ uptake on both early and late images. In six patients with regional uptake deficits, a crossed cerebellar diaschisis was observed on early images. Cerebellar inhomogeneity of tracer uptake was absent at the time of late images in all six patients. In eight patients, areas of hypoperfusion corresponded exactly to the regions of receptor deficiency (match). In five patients, preserved neuronal integrity was present in hypoperfused areas (mismatch). In four patients, normally or even hyperperfused areas exhibited regional receptor deficiency (inverse mismatch). In conclusion, IMZ SPECT demonstrated differences between regional perfusion and receptor distribution in about one-half of patients 7-10 days after acute cerebral ischaemia. Interesting patterns between the early phase (perfusion) and the late phase (receptor distribution) were found. These patterns are indicative of the heterogeneous development of cerebral ischaemia where, even days after stroke onset, areas of hypoperfusion but preserved neuronal integrity may be present. However, the evaluation of the potential clinical and therapeutic impact of individual IMZ distribution patterns requires further investigation.