Pancreatic endocrine tumour with ductules: further observations of an unusual histological subtype. Pancreatic endocrine tumours (PET) containing ductules are an uncommon histological variant. Considerable conjecture surrounds the origin and histogenesis of the ductules. Opinions range from the ductules being an inherent part of the tumour, to others who feel they are merely entrapped. A study of 21 cases of this variant was undertaken with particular attention paid to the distribution and morphology of the ductules, the presence of entrapped acinar tissue and the surrounding uninvolved pancreatic tissue.Twenty-one cases were detailed occurring in either gender equally and with a wide age range (19-85 years). All cases, except one, were sporadic, the vast majority were located in the tail and were of small size (less than 2.0 cm). All cases were typified by stromal fibrosis, either diffuse (15) or in the form of septae (6). Embedded within the fibrous tissue were ductular structures, some of which were dilated and ectatic. The ductules were centrally located (5), at the periphery of the tumour (9) or diffusely scattered throughout the lesion (7). All cases showed ductulo-insular complexes. Insulin was demonstrated in 15 immunohistochemically.It is likely that in some cases the ductules are entrapped as the tumour grows into surrounding normal pancreatic tissue and the ductular proliferation is a secondary phenomenon. In a proportion of cases, the ductules are likely to be a part of the tumour arising as part of focal chronic inflammation or as a result of the growth factor effects of insulin, in cases associated with insulin production. There is nothing to suggest that the ductules confer any special biological characteristics to the PET and are merely a histological nuance. However, some cases may have a dominant tubular component, which could present problems at frozen section where the association with fibrosis may invoke a mistaken diagnosis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma or chronic pancreatitis.