Cortical trapping of alpha-[(11)C]methyl-l-tryptophan, an index of serotonin synthesis, is lower in females than males. One neural system that may exhibit gender differences is serotonin (5-HT), a neurotransmitter implicated in the regulation of mood, cognitive processes, and impulse-control. However, most of the available evidence of gender-related differences in this system has been indirect and at times contradictory. The objective of the present study was to follow up on preliminary evidence that there are gender differences in brain regional 5-HT synthesis, as measured by trapping of alpha-[(11)C]methyl-l-tryptophan (alpha-[(11)C]MTrp). Sixty-minute dynamic scans were performed in healthy volunteers, 28 women and 31 men. Functional images of the brain trapping constant, used as a proxy for 5-HT synthesis, which correlate in the rat brain with tryptophan's conversion into 5-HT, were transferred to the standardized 3D space. The voxel based comparison was performed by Statistical Parametric Mapping with proportional normalization. There was lower normalized alpha-[(11)C]MTrp trapping in females than males throughout much of the cerebral cortex, including the left middle frontal gyrus, the bilateral inferior frontal gyrus, the bilateral precentral gyrus, the left supramarginal gyrus, the bilateral inferior parietal lobule, the left superior temporal gyrus, the bilateral posterior cingulate gyrus, and the bilateral precuneus. There were no regions in which the normalized trapping was significantly higher in females than in males. Gender differences in sub-cortical sites were not found. Women, compared to men, may have lower rates of this tracer trapping, used as a proxy for 5-HT synthesis, throughout much of the cerebral cortex which is likely related to differences in 5-HT synthesis because relative differences in the normalized trapping should be the same as those in 5-HT synthesis. These differences may be related, at least in part, to previously suggested gender differences in affect, cognitive processes, and susceptibility to 5-HT-related neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders.