CCS/CAR/CANM/CNCS/CanSCMR joint position statement on advanced noninvasive cardiac imaging using positron emission tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and multidetector computed tomographic angiography in the diagnosis and evaluation of ischemic heart disease--executive summary. Over the past few decades, advanced imaging modalities with excellent diagnostic capabilities have emerged. The aim of the present position statement was to systematically review existing literature to define Canadian recommendations for their clinical use.A systematic literature review to 2005 was conducted for positron emission tomography (PET), multidetector computed tomographic angiography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in ischemic heart disease. Papers that met the criteria were reviewed for accuracy, prognosis data and study quality. Recommendations were presented to primary and secondary panels of experts, and consensus was achieved.Indications for PET include detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) with perfusion imaging, and defining viability using fluorodeoxyglucose to determine left ventricular function recovery and/or prognosis after revascularization (class I). Detection of CAD in patients, vessel segments and grafts using computed tomographic angiography was considered class IIa at the time of the literature review. Dobutamine MRI is class I for CAD detection and, along with late gadolinium enhancement MRI, class I for viability detection to predict left ventricular function recovery. Imaging must be performed at institutions and interpreted by physicians with adequate experience and training.Cardiac imaging using advanced modalities (PET, multidetector computed tomographic angiography and MRI) is useful for CAD detection, viability definition and, in some cases, prognosis. These modalities complement the more widespread single photon emission computed tomography and echocardiography. Given the rapid evolution of technology, initial guidelines for clinical use will require regular updates. Evaluation of their integration in clinical practice should be ongoing optimal use will require proper training. A joint effort among specialties is recommended to achieve these goals.