A novel approach to transplanting bone marrow stem cells to repair human myocardial infarction: delivery via a noninfarct-relative artery. Bone marrow stem cells are able to repair infarcted human myocardium following intracoronary transplantation via the infarct-relative artery. However, traditional reperfusion strategies fail to open the artery in some patients, making effective delivery impossible. Our previous study demonstrated a safe and efficient approach to delivering bone marrow stem cells via a noninfarcted artery in an animal myocardial infarction model. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the safety and feasibility of autologous bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell transplantation via such an approach in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Sixteen patients with anterior AMI who had successfully undergone percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) were enrolled in this pilot, randomized study. Three weeks after PCI, cultured bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells were injected into the myocardium via either the infarct-relative artery (left anterior descending branch artery, LAD) or a noninfarct-relative artery (right coronary artery, RCA). The safety and feasibility of the cell infusion were evaluated during the procedure and during 6 months of follow-up. In addition, 2D echocardiography, technetium-99m methoxyisobutylisonitrile (99mTc-MIBI) and 18F-deoxyglucose single photon emission computed tomography were employed to examine cardiac function, myocardial perfusion, and viable cardiomyocytes, respectively, at day 4 after PCI and 6 months after the cell infusion. There were no arrhythmia and any other side-effects, including infections, allergic reactions or adverse clinical events, during, immediately after, or 6 months after cell transplantation. Cardiac function and myocardial perfusion had improved 6 months after PCI/bone marrow stem cells transplantation. Viable cardiomyocytes metabolism was detected in the infarcted areas in both groups after the cell infusion, as demonstrated by 18F-deoxyglucose. Intracoronary infusion of autologous bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells via a noninfarct-relative artery appears safe and feasible in the treatment of patients with AMI.