Glial cell-mediated deterioration and repair of the nervous system after traumatic brain injury in a rat model as assessed by positron emission tomography. Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is one of the most acute degenerative pathologies in the central nervous system, and in vivo indices enabling an assessment of TBI on a mechanistic basis have yet to be established. The aim of this work was to pursue neuroinflammatory changes and their link to functional disruptions of traumatically-damaged neurons in a rat model of TBI by longitudinal positron emission tomographic (PET) assays. TBI was induced in the unilateral frontal cortex of craniotomied rats according to a lateral fluid percussion brain injury protocol. The use of [(18)F]fluoroethyl-DAA1106 as a PET tracer for translocator protein (TSPO) permitted demonstration of the inflammatory response to the injury, peaking at 1 week after impact. This alteration was parallel to metabolic deficits assessed by PET with [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose, but the difference in TSPO levels between impacted and non-impacted frontal cortices was more than threefold of the interlateral metabolic difference, indicating superiority of TSPO imaging for sensitive detection of post-traumatic pathologies. Comparative PET, autoradiographic. and immunohistochemical investigations illustrated the primary contribution of hypertrophic microglia and macrophages to acute TSPO signals in the vicinity of the impact. Astrocytes also formed a TSPO-positive glial scar encompassing necrotic inflammation, and were clustered with PET-detectable TSPO signals in the bilateral external and internal capsules at late stages, putatively reacting with diffuse axonal injury. These observations support the applicability of TSPO-PET as an imaging-based preclinical and clinical biomarker assay in TBI, and indicate its potential capability to clarify aggressive and protective roles of glial responses to injury when combined with emerging anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory treatments.