Modular extension of the ACR-NEMA DICOM standard to support new diagnostic imaging modalities and services. The American College of Radiology-National Electrical Manufacturers Association (ACR-NEMA) Standard for Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) (NEMA PS3-1993, DICOM) enables interconnection of imaging equipment and exchange of diagnostic images over standard networks. The widespread adoption of DICOM by industry and the benefits of standardized image management have attracted international attention. Other medical specialties, dentistry, and veterinary medicine have indicated strong interest in extending the DICOM Standard to support nonradiological image modalities. Parts 1 through 9 of DICOM were published in 1992 and 1993. Additional features developed in response to requests from the user community are being added in DICOM Supplements. The ACR, NEMA, and committees from other medical specialties working under the coordination of the American National Standards Institute Healthcare Informatics Standards Planning Panel Message Standards Developers Subcommittee Joint Working Group for Diagnostic Image Communication have defined new image object classes to support X-Ray Angiography, Radio-Fluoroscopy, Positron Emission Tomography, Endoscopy, and Light Microscopy. ACR-NEMA has also developed new service classes for Storage Commitment and Worklist Management. In joint work with the standards development committee of the Japanese Industries for Radiation Apparatus and the Japanese Medical Information System Development Center, ACR-NEMA has developed specifications for multibyte character set support and for a DICOM file format for transportable media. Other work is in progress. New DICOM features have provided and can continue to provide significant new functionality for digital image management systems. The demonstrated capability of efficient extension of the base standard is evidence of the effectiveness of the object oriented strategy of DICOM.