Correlation between peritoneal equilibration test and dialysis adequacy and transport test, for peritoneal transport type characterization. Mexican Nephrology Collaborative Study Group. The aim of this study was to analyze the correlation between the peritoneal equilibration test (PET) and the dialysis adequacy and transport test (DATT) for peritoneal transport type characterization, and the degree of patients' acceptance for each test.Cross-sectional, observational multicenter study.Five referral (tertiary) dialysis centers of institutional practice.The study included 107 adult continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients with a prescription of four exchanges of 2 L per day, irrespective of age, gender, cause of end-stage renal disease, time on dialysis, nutritional status, or residual renal function. Patients on immunosuppressive therapy and those with cancer, hepatitis B, or HIV, and those having a peritonitis episode within the previous 30 days, or three or more episodes during the previous 12 months, were excluded.Peritoneal transport type as classified by creatinine and urea dialysis-to-plasma (D/P) ratios by PET and DATT.Correlation coefficients between D/P ratios for creatinine and urea, obtained for the PET and the DATT, were 0.73 for D/P creatinine and 0.96 for D/P urea. Patients were classified into high, high-average, low-average, and low transport categories according to the mean and standard deviation of D/P creatinine values obtained from the PET at 4 hours. These values showed excellent concordance with those generated from the DATT data (alpha = 0.82, 95% confidence interval 0.67 - 0.93). Nineteen percent of patients showed discordance in their category when classified according to the PET versus the DATT. Patients' acceptance was better for the DATT than for the PET, as evaluated with a questionnaire.The DATT is an easy, inexpensive, and reliable test to assess peritoneal transport type, and it also provides information about peritoneal clearance of solutes and ultrafiltration. The DATT has better patient acceptance than the PET. Since the DATT has only been validated for patients on a fixed CAPD daily schedule of 4 x 2 L, the results should be confined only to patients receiving such a prescription.