A new algorithm for the quantitation of myocardial perfusion SPECT. II: validation and diagnostic yield. This study validates a new quantitative perfusion SPECT algorithm for the assessment of myocardial perfusion. The algorithm is not based on slices and provides fully 3-dimensional sampling and analysis independent of assumptions about the geometric shape of the left ventricle.Radiopharmaceutical- and sex-specific normal limits and thresholds for perfusion abnormality in 20 segments of the left ventricle were developed for separate, dual-isotope rest 201Tl-exercise 99mTc-sestamibi SPECT in 36 patients with <5% before-scanning likelihood of coronary artery disease (CAD) (group 1) and 159 patients with perfusion abnormalities (group 2). These thresholds were validated in 131 patients (group 3) by comparison with expert visual interpretation. Thresholds for automatic segmental scores were developed and validated for groups 2 and 3, respectively. The accuracy of CAD detection was assessed in 94 patients, who underwent coronary angiography (group 4).Overall sensitivity for detection of stress and rest segmental perfusion abnormality was 91% and 96%, respectively, for men and 89% and 79%, respectively, for women. Overall specificity for stress and rest was 87% and 90%, respectively, for men and 88% and 90%, respectively, for women. Agreement between automatic and visual scores was good (weighted K of 0.71 and 0.60 for stress and rest images, respectively). Sensitivity and specificity were 88% for the detection of > or =70% stenosis. For the detection of left anterior descending, left circumflex, and right coronary artery stenosis, sensitivity was 84%, 86%, and 88%, respectively, and specificity was 84%, 88%, and 81%, respectively.The new quantitative perfusion SPECT approach is highly sensitive and specific for the detection and localization of CAD, provides accurate automatic scores for the assessment of regional perfusion, and overcomes the low-specificity limitations of previous quantitative algorithms.