Diagnosis of vasospastic angina by hyperventilation and cold-pressor stress echocardiography: comparison to I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy. We assessed the usefulness of hyperventilation and cold-pressor stress echocardiography in the diagnosis of vasospastic angina compared with that of iodine-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine (123I-MIBG) myocardial scintigraphy.Various noninvasive methods have been used to detect vasospastic angina, but they are not very sensitive in the diagnosis of vasospastic angina. 123I-MIBG images and stress echocardiography have recently been proposed as a useful tool for detecting vasospastic angina.Thirty patients (21 males and 9 females, mean age: 52 +/- 14 years) who complained of rest angina were enrolled for this study. The hyperventilation and cold-pressor stress echocardiography test consisted of hyperventilation for 6 minutes, followed by cold water pressor for 2 minutes under continuous electrocardiographic and echocardiographic monitoring. Left ventricular regional wall motion by echocardiogram was analyzed by using the 16-segment model, and wall motion ranging from normokinesis to dyskinesis was evaluated visually in each segment. Single-photon emission computed tomography images of 123I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy were divided into 26 segments. Defect scores were established using the 4 grades. The echocardiographic criteria for coronary spasm was worsening wall motion and the scintigraphic criteria was defect score more than moderately reduced. Acetylcholine was selectively injected into the right coronary artery (20 microg and 50 microg) and left coronary artery (20 microg, 50 microg, and 100 microg).Of 30 patients, 20 patients had coronary spasm on coronary angiography with an intracoronary injection of acetylcholine, whereas 10 patients showed no spasm. Multivessel spasms were observed in 15 patients. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and diagnostic accuracy of hyperventilation and cold-pressor stress echocardiography for diagnosing in patients with vasospastic angina were 90%, 90%, 95%, 82%, and 90%, respectively. However, those of 123I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy for diagnosing in patients with vasospastic angina were 90%, 40%, 75%, 67%, and 73%, respectively. The specificity of hyperventilation and cold-pressor stress echocardiography was significantly higher than that of 123I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy (P <.05).The specificity of hyperventilation and cold-pressor stress echocardiography in diagnosing coronary spasm were higher than that shown by 201I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy.