Epilepsy surgery in children with gliomatosis cerebri. Gliomatosis cerebri (GC) is a rare neoplastic disorder that may present as intractable epilepsy during early life. We report our experience regarding the evaluation and the surgical treatment of epilepsy in this population.All children evaluated between 1990 and 2006 for surgery of epilepsy (n = 741) with pathologically proven GC were selected.We identified four male children with age at seizure onset ranging from 4 months to 11 years. Two had hemiparesis and one child with infantile spasms was developmentally delayed. Seizures occurred daily (n = 3) or monthly (n = 1). Ictal semiology was consistent with psychomotor seizures (n = 1), partial motor seizures (n = 2), and asymmetric epileptic spasms (n = 1). Surgery was symptomatic and aimed at debulking and controlling the epilepsy. Procedure was individually tailored based on the presurgical evaluation. Brain MRI revealed widespread hemispheric involvement (n = 3) or infiltration of the temporal lobe and basal ganglia (n = 1). Two patients were initially misdiagnosed as hemispheric cortical dysplasia and hemimegalencephaly. Scalp EEG was nonlocalizing in two cases, showed a right temporal focus in one case, and was not performed in one case. Interictal SPECT in one patient revealed widespread hemispheric hypoperfusion. Three cases were resected under ECoG guidance after a mean delay of 11 months after seizure onset. Following functional hemispherectomy (n = 1) or focal cortical resection (n = 2), all children were alive and seizure free with a mean follow-up of 48 months (2-5 years). No unexpected complication was reported. One nonoperated case was alive but still seizing after 15 months follow-up. Chemotherapy was associated in three cases.GC is a rare cause of medically resistant epilepsy that may present in early life. The lack of a discrete lesion may lead to diagnostic uncertainty, especially in infancy. Epilepsy surgery is an effective therapy that can improve quality of life.