Magnetic field effect corroborated with docking study to explore photoinduced electron transfer in drug-protein interaction. Conventional spectroscopic tools such as absorption, fluorescence, and circular dichroism spectroscopy used in the study of photoinduced drug-protein interactions can yield useful information about ground-state and excited-state phenomena. However, photoinduced electron transfer (PET) may be a possible phenomenon in the drug-protein interaction, which may go unnoticed if only conventional spectroscopic observations are taken into account. Laser flash photolysis coupled with an external magnetic field can be utilized to confirm the occurrence of PET and authenticate the spin states of the radicals/radical ions formed. In the study of interaction of the model protein human serum albumin (HSA) with acridine derivatives, acridine yellow (AY) and proflavin (PF(+)), conventional spectroscopic tools along with docking study have been used to decipher the binding mechanism, and laser flash photolysis technique with an associated magnetic field (MF) has been used to explore PET. The results of fluorescence study indicate that fluorescence resonance energy transfer takes place from the protein to the acridine-based drugs. Docking study unveils the crucial role of Ser 232 residue of HSA in explaining the differential behavior of the two drugs towards the model protein. Laser flash photolysis experiments help to identify the radicals/radical ions formed in the due course of PET (PF(•), AY(•-), TrpH(•+), Trp(•)), and the application of an external MF has been used to characterize their initial spin-state. Owing to its distance dependence, MF effect gives an idea about the proximity of the radicals/radical ions during interaction in the system and also helps to elucidate the reaction mechanisms. A prominent MF effect is observed in homogeneous buffer medium owing to the pseudoconfinement of the radicals/radical ions provided by the complex structure of the protein.