Progressive failure of coronary flow during reperfusion of myocardial infarction: documentation of the no reflow phenomenon with positron emission tomography. During reperfusion of a myocardial infarct, development of microvascular occlusion may result in regional hypoperfusion ("no reflow") despite a patent infarct-related artery. This study examined the extent and time course of no reflow with use of rubidium-82 positron emission tomography. In 12 anesthetized dogs, the left anterior descending coronary artery was occluded for 90 min and then freely reperfused. Regional myocardial perfusion was imaged by serial rubidium-82 positron emission tomography during coronary occlusion and every 30 min during reperfusion. After 4 h of reperfusion, infarct size and no reflow zone were measured postmortem by triphenyltetrazolium and thioflavin staining, respectively. Perfusion defects evident on rubidium-82 images during coronary occlusion rapidly resolved during the early reflow period. However, a recurrent perfusion defect appeared after 1 to 2 h of reflow in all dogs. The severity of recurrent perfusion defects progressed with time after 5 min of reflow, relative perfusion in the left anterior descending artery territory was 97 +/- 6% of that in the normal circumflex artery region, but perfusion decreased progressively to 68 +/- 5% after 2 h (p less than 0.05) and to 55 +/- 4% after 4 h of reperfusion (p less than 0.05 versus 2 h). As measured by radioactive tracer microspheres, endocardial blood flow decreased similarly in the postischemic left anterior descending artery region from 1.2 +/- 0.2 ml/min per g after 5 min of reflow to 0.4 +/- 0.1 ml/min per g after 3 h of reflow (p less than 0.01). Residual infarct perfusion, measured by rubidium-82 after 4 h of reflow, was related to both infarct size (r = -0.88) and the extent of the no reflow zone (r = -0.84) in the postmortem left ventricular sections. Thus, serial positron emission tomography with rubidium-82 demonstrates a progressive loss of infarct perfusion, beginning 1 to 2 h after initial restoration of blood flow despite patency of the infarct-related artery. This phenomenon is probably a manifestation of progressive microvascular occlusion within the reperfused myocardium.