The appearance of gallop rhythm after exercise stress testing. Although it is generally assumed that the appearance of an early diastolic gallop, or third heart sound, appearing immediately after exercise during treadmill stress testing, indicates the presence of serious myocardial disease, no systemically collected data are available to test this hypothesis.The author performed auscultation on 3,679 patients undergoing routine treadmill testing together with thallium-201 perfusion scans. Exercise-induced diastolic sounds were related to the available clinical information and electrocardiographic and nuclear test results. These findings were compared with those of 665 randomly selected patients undergoing stress testing in whom such sounds were absent.A total of 165 patients had audible third heart sounds (Group 1). In comparison with those patients lacking such sounds (Group 2), there was a considerably greater prevalence of myocardial scarring (68.5 vs. 26.9%), abnormal lung uptake of thallium (40 vs. 12.8%), diabetes mellitus (20.6 vs. 6.2%), and left bundle-branch block on the resting electrocardiogram (ECG) (15.1 vs. 1.2%). In addition, 65 patients (39.3%) had dilatation of the left ventricle after exercise 31 (18.8%) of these were also dilated at rest, but only 2 (1.2%) had a drop in blood pressure during stress. In those individuals also subjected to nuclear ventriculography, the average resting ejection fraction was 35%. Estimated exercise capacity was generally reduced in Group 1 (average peak of 6.6 METs), but 29 (17.6%) exceeded 9 METs. Sensitivity and specificity of electrocardiographic ST depression were relatively poor in the detection of perfusion defects within this group (36 and 62%, respectively). Of the 39 patients in Group 1 with a normal resting ECG, 19 (48.7%) had scar (usually posterior or lateral) on nuclear scans. In an additional 10 of this group, nuclear evidence of ischemia (often extensive) was found.An early or mid-diastolic gallop sound developing after exercise virtually always signifies myocardial disease with reduced myocardial function. Common associated findings are prior infarction (with or without associated ischemia), diabetes, and left bundle-branch block. When found in the presence of a normal resting ECG, this sound commonly signals the presence an occult left ventricular scar and, less commonly, extensive myocardial ischemia. In those patients manifesting such sounds, electrocardiographic ST changes in response to exercise appear limited in the detection of coronary ischemia.