Development of "super rapid dynamic SPECT," and analysis of retention process of 99mTc-ECD in ischemic lesions: comparative study with 133Xe SPECT. To analyze the retention process of technetium-99m ethyl cysteinate dimer (99mTc-ECD) in normal and ischemic lesions, we developed a super rapid dynamic SPECT system based on the CERASPECT (DSI, Inc., Waltham, MA, USA). The system made it possible to take a SPECT series every 2 seconds. Each SPECT series contains a maximum of 16 slices (6.6 mm slice interval) in a matrix size of 32 x 32. The sensitivity of this system is 175 kcps/MBq/ml/cm slice thickness, and resolution is 12 mm FWHM at the center of a 20 cm(phi) water phantom. Using the super rapid SPECT system, the kinetic behavior of the 99mTc-ECD during retention in normal and ischemic lesions was analyzed. Twenty patients with ischemic lesions that were clearly demonstrated by 133Xe-rCBF (regional cerebral blood flow) SPECT but unclear on static 99mTc-ECD SPECT were examined. For the dynamic SPECT, 700 MBq of 99mTc-ECD was injected intravenously, and dynamic SPECT data were acquired every 2 seconds during a 90-second period. The serial dynamic SPECT and time-activity curves at some lesions with reduced rCBF and at the contralateral normal brain were analyzed. These dynamic SPECT data were compared with conventional static 99mTc-ECD SPECT and quantitative 133Xe-rCBF SPECT. All of mildly or moderately reduced rCBF lesions on the 133Xe-rCBF SPECT were recognized as low activity regions only at the early phase (during about 2-20 sec or less), with the lesions then gradually vanishing. These lesions were not recognized on the conventional static SPECT taken after the dynamic study. The time-activity curve at the reduced rCBF lesion was lower than that of contralateral normal brain at the early phase, and overtook the activity in the normal region with a gradual increase. The early phase images of 99mTc-ECD SPECT within 20 seconds by the super rapid dynamic SPECT were very useful to the same extent as the 133Xe-rCBF SPECT for detecting mild or moderate ischemic lesions. This study suggests that esterase activity, participating in the ECD retention mechanism, may be tolerable to mild or moderate ischemia. This tolerance may be the main cause of the nonlinear relationship between ECD accumulation and cerebral blood flow.