Dual-phase multi-detector computed tomography assesses jeopardised and infarcted myocardium subtending infarct-related artery early after acute myocardial infarction. To investigate dual-phase multi-detector computed tomography (MDCT) for assessing extent and severity of jeopardised and infarcted myocardium subtended by infarct-related artery (IRA), and its indication for revascularisation after acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Designs, setting andProspective, single-centre study included 107 patients with uncomplicated post-AMI 3-7 days, who met criteria and underwent dual-phase 64-slice MDCT. IRA, culprit lesion and extent of jeopardised/infarcted myocardium were assessed by three-dimensional (3D) volume-rendered images with myocardium maps and computed tomography angiography (CTA), compared with stress-redistribution thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) plus conventional coronary angiography (CCA). MDCT-jeopardised score (severity of jeopardised myocardium) was defined as extent of jeopardised myocardium multiplied by the weighted factor dependent on culprit lesion severity compared with SPECT-SRS (summation of segmental reversible score). The IRA indication for revascularisation was evaluated by MDCT-jeopardised score plus CTA. SPECT-SRS > or =2 plus CCA-culprit lesion > or =50% was the standard reference.The presence of MDCT-delayed enhancement was found in 101 (94.4%) patients. The IRA and culprit lesion were identified in 99 (92.5%) patients by MDCT-myocardium maps plus CTA. The concordance between MDCT and SPECT for detecting infarcted myocardium was good (kappa = 0.702). The correlation between MDCT-jeopardised score and SPECT-SRS was 0.741. The correlation between CTA and CCA for culprit lesion severity was 0.85. The sensitivity, specificity, negative and positive predictive values of MDCT-jeopardised score > or =2.5 plus CTA for indicating revascularisation were 90.2%, 80.4%, 86.0% and 85.9%, respectively.Dual-phase MDCT has good accuracy for identifying IRA, and assessing infarcted and jeopardised myocardium for clinical relevance. It provides an alternative for triage and therapeutic planning in post-AMI.