Evaluation of mouse tail-vein injections both qualitatively and quantitatively on small-animal PET tail scans. Quantitative small-animal PET of mice requires successful delivery of radiotracers into the venous system. Intravenous injection of radiotracers via lateral tail veins is the most commonly used method of administration and can be technically challenging. Evaluation of the quality of an intravenous injection is necessary to determine whether small-animal PET is quantitatively accurate. The purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare the quality of 50 consecutive intravenous injections into mouse tail veins using both quantitative and qualitative methods.During (18)F-FDG intravenous injection, qualitative assessment of the injection was performed and classified according to specific criteria as good, intermediate, or poor. Small-animal PET scans of the body and tail were acquired, and tail injection sites were quantitatively assessed in terms of percentage injected dose per gram and classified as low, medium, or high uptake of (18)F-FDG. Qualitative and quantitative methods were compared. To assess baseline amounts of (18)F-FDG in the tail without a tail injection, 3 additional mice were injected by the intraperitoneal method, imaged, and quantitatively assessed in the same manner. The in vivo imaging data were validated on 7 additional mice by sacrificing them after scans, removing their tails, rescanning the tails, and then measuring the tail radioactivity ex vivo in a γ-counter and correlating it with the in vivo amount.Validation of in vivo imaging to ex vivo data yielded an excellent correlation, with an r(2) value of 0.95. Comparison of qualitative and quantitative methods yielded 45 matching results (42 good and low, 2 intermediate and medium, and 1 poor and high). There were 5 cases of mismatching results (1 false-negative and 4 false-positive) between qualitative and quantitative methods. Low-uptake tail injections were comparable to the intraperitoneal injection values. Using qualitative methods, accuracy was true 90% (45/50) of the time. The overall rate of successful intravenous injections was 92% (46/50) using quantitative methods.Qualitative assessment is all that is necessary if the intravenous injection is classified as good. In intermediate, poor, or uncertain classifications, a scan of the tail should be performed for quantitative assessment.