Copper bis(diphosphine) complexes: radiopharmaceuticals for the detection of multi-drug resistance in tumours by PET. Experience with imaging of the multi-drug resistance (MDR) phenotype in tumours using technetium-99m sestamibi, a substrate of the P-glycoprotein (Pgp) transporter, suggests that better quantification of images and separation of MDR from other variables affecting tracer uptake in tumours are required. One approach to these problems is the development of short half-life positron-emitting tracers which are substrates of Pgp. Several lipophilic cationic copper(I) bis(diphosphine) complexes labelled with copper-64 have been synthesised and evaluated in vitro as substrates for Pgp. The synthesis is rapid and efficient with no need for purification steps. The chemistry is suitable for use with very short half-life radionuclides such as copper-62 (9.7 min) and copper-60 (23.7 min). Incubation of the complexes with human serum in vitro showed that they are sufficiently stable in serum to support clinical imaging, and the more lipophilic members of the series are taken up rapidly by cells (Chinese hamster ovary and human ovarian carcinoma) in vitro with great avidity. Uptake in human ovarian carcinoma cells is significantly reduced after several months of conditioning in the presence of doxorubicin, which induces increased Pgp expression. Uptake in hooded rat sarcoma (HSN) cells, which express Pgp, is significantly increased in the presence of the MDR modulator cyclosporin A. Biodistribution studies in hooded rats show rapid blood clearance, excretion through both kidneys and liver, and low uptake in other tissues. The one complex investigated in HSN tumour-bearing rats showed uptake in tumour increasing up to 30 min p.i. while it was decreasing in other tissues. We conclude that diphosphine ligands offer a good basis for development of radiopharmaceuticals containing copper radionuclides, and that this series of complexes should undergo further evaluation in vivo as positron emission tomography imaging agents for MDR.