Perfusion bioreactor system for human mesenchymal stem cell tissue engineering: dynamic cell seeding and construct development. Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) have great potential for therapeutic applications. A bioreactor system that supports long-term hMSCs growth and three-dimensional (3-D) tissue formation is an important technology for hMSC tissue engineering. A 3-D perfusion bioreactor system was designed using non-woven poly (ethylene terepthalate) (PET) fibrous matrices as scaffolds. The main features of the perfusion bioreactor system are its modular design and integrated seeding operation. Modular design of the bioreactor system allows the growth of multiple engineered tissue constructs and provides flexibility in harvesting the constructs at different time points. In this study, four chambers with three matrices in each were utilized for hMSC construct development. The dynamic depth filtration seeding operation is incorporated in the system by perfusing cell suspensions perpendicularly through the PET matrices, achieving a maximum seeding efficiency of 68%, and the operation effectively reduced the complexity of operation and the risk of contamination. Statistical analyses suggest that the cells are uniformly distributed in the matrices. After seeding, long-term construct cultivation was conducted by perfusing the media around the constructs from both sides of the matrices. Compared to the static cultures, a significantly higher cell density of 4.22 x 10(7) cell/mL was reached over a 40-day culture period. Cellular constructs at different positions in the flow chamber have statistically identical cell densities over the culture period. After expansion, the cells in the construct maintained the potential to differentiate into osteoblastic and adipogenic lineages at high cell density. The perfusion bioreactor system is amenable to multiple tissue engineered construct production, uniform tissue development, and yet is simple to operate and can be scaled up for potential clinical use. The results also demonstrate that the multi-lineage differentiation potential of hMSCs are preserved even after extensive expansion, thus indicating the potential of hMSCs for functional tissue construct development. The system has important applications in stem cell tissue engineering.