Gated 99mTc-MIBI single-photon emission computed tomography for the evaluation of left ventricular ejection fraction: comparison with three-dimensional echocardiography. Parameters of left ventricular systolic function directly influence the management of patients with suspected coronary artery disease (CAD). Quantitative gated single-photon emission computed tomography (QGS Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA) allows the computation of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) from myocardial perfusion imaging studies which are frequently performed on patients with suspected CAD. Three-dimensional (3D) echocardiography is considered to be the echocardiographic "gold standard" for the quantification of LVEF. We sought to compare QGS with 3D echocardiography in the evaluation of EF in patients with suspected CAD.Ninety-one consecutive patients with suspected CAD, scheduled for coronary angiography, underwent rest electrocardiographic-gated technetium-99m methoxyisobutylisonitrile SPECT (G-SPECT) with measurement of LVEF by QGS and transthoracic 3D echocardiography with off-line measurement of LVEF (Tomtec 4D LV Analysis 1.1). The diagnosis of CAD was based on coronary angiography, performed on every patient.Nine patients were excluded from the analysis owing to unsuitability for 3D echocardiography (8 patients) or G-SPECT (1 patient). In the remaining group of 82 patients, 71 (87%) had significant CAD, 34 (42%) had a history of myocardial infarction, and 50 (61%) had perfusion defects at rest G-SPECT images. The mean LVEF measured by QGS and 3D echocardiography was 53+/-13% and 53+/-10%, respectively. The mean difference in LVEF between 3D echocardiography and QGS was 0.1+/-6.0% (P=0.87), and the correlation between the values obtained by both methods was high (r=0.88, P<0.001). The largest discrepancies were observed in patients with small ventricular volumes.In patients undergoing diagnostic work-up for CAD, the measurement of LVEF by QGS algorithm provides high correlation and satisfactory agreement with the results of reference ultrasound method--3D echocardiography.