A practical way to improve contrast-to-noise ratio and quantitation for statistical-based iterative reconstruction in whole-body PET imaging. In whole-body positron emission tomography (PET) imaging, the detection of small uptake foci (i.e., around two or three times the tomograph's spatial resolution) is a critical issue. Indeed, spatial resolution is altered by postreconstruction smoothing operations used to reduce the noise introduced by (among other things) an inaccurate system matrix. The authors previously proposed a device-dedicated projector, easily applicable on a clinical gantry, based on point-source measurements, which introduces less noise than a geometrical model. In the present study, they took advantage of the lower noise levels by reducing the postfilter and then quantified the approach's impact on image quality. This study was performed on an IEC Body Phantom Set filled with 18F (sphere-to-background activity ratio: 4:1). The same 3 min acquisition was reconstructed with either (i) a clinical system based on a geometrical tomographic operator (OSEM_CL) or (ii) an OSEM algorithm using the suggested system matrix (OSEM_DR). In order to compare the resulting images, they set the 3D Gaussian postfilter (3DGPF) for OSEM_DR so as to obtain similar background signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) to that of OSEM_CL with a Gaussian postfilter full width at half maximum of 5 mm (as recommended for whole-body imaging on a Biograph6). They then assessed the contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) and quantitation [contrast recovery (CR)] for the phantom's four smallest spheres (with internal diameters of 10, 13, 17, and 22 mm). Evaluation of 3DGPFs ranging from 2.2 to 2.6 mm showed that a value of 2.4 mm in OSEM_DR gave the closest background SNR to that of OSEM_CL with a 3DGPF of 5 mm. For all studied targets, the CNR was higher with OSEM_DR than with OSEM_CL. For the 10 and 13 mm spheres, OSEM_DR increased the size of the CNR peaks by 37% and 20%, relative to OSEM_CL. The OSEM_DR technique yielded higher CR values than OSEM_CL did. For the 10, 13, 17, and 22 mm spheres, the CR values at eight iterations were 0.5, 0.6, 1.1, and 1.0 for OSEM_DR and 0.3, 0.4, 0.9, and 0.8 for OSEM_CL. They evaluated a practical method for determining a device-dedicated system matrix based on point-source acquisitions. This tomographic operator is more realistic than geometrical system matrix and introduces less noise into PET images during statistical reconstruction it thus reduces the extent of postfiltering operations required. Thus, spatial resolution is better maintained with OSEM_DR than with clinical reconstruction. They showed that this method improves the contrast-to-noise ratio and quantification of uptake foci (especially those that are at the system's limit of detection) and, in a clinical context, could allow better detection and earlier diagnosis.