Combination radiofrequency ablation and intravenous radiolabeled liposomal Doxorubicin: imaging and quantification of increased drug delivery to tumors. To identify, with noninvasive imaging, the zone of radiopharmaceutical uptake after combination therapy with radiofrequency (RF) ablation and intravenous administration of technetium 99m ((99m)Tc) liposomal doxorubicin in a small-animal tumor model, and to quantify and correlate the uptake by using imaging and tissue counting of intratumoral doxorubicin accumulation.This study was approved by the animal care committee. Two phases of animal experiments were performed. In the first experiment, a single human head-and-neck squamous cell carcinoma tumor was grown in each of 10 male nude rats. Seven of these animals were treated with intravenous (99m)Tc-liposomal doxorubicin followed by RF tumor ablation at a mean temperature of 70 degrees C + or - 2 for 5 minutes, and three were treated with intravenous (99m)Tc-liposomal doxorubicin only. Combination single photon emission computed tomography-computed tomography (SPECT/CT) was performed at 15 minutes, 4 hours, and 20 hours after therapy. In the second experiment, two tumors each were grown in 11 rats, but only one of the tumors was ablated after intravenous administration of (99m)Tc-liposomal doxorubicin. SPECT/CT and planar scintigraphy were performed at the same posttreatment intervals applied in the first experiment, with additional planar imaging performed at 44 hours. After imaging, tissue counting in the excised tumors was performed. Radiotracer uptake, as determined with imaging and tissue counting, was quantified and compared. In a subset of three animals, intratumoral doxorubicin accumulation was determined with fluorimetry and correlated with the imaging and tissue-counting data.At both SPECT/CT and planar scintigraphy, increased uptake of (99m)Tc-liposomal doxorubicin was visibly apparent in the ablated tumors. Results of quantitative analysis with both imaging and tissue counting confirmed significantly greater uptake in the RF ablation-treated tumors (P < .001). Intratumoral doxorubicin accumulation correlated closely with imaging (r = 0.9185-0.9871) and tissue-counting (r = 0.995) results.Study results show that increased delivery of intravenous liposomal doxorubicin to tumors combined with RF ablation can be depicted and quantified with noninvasive imaging.