A phase II study of neoadjuvant and adjuvant chemotherapy with 5-fluorodeoxyuridine, leucovorin, oxaliplatin and docetaxel in the treatment of previously untreated advanced esophageal adenocarcinoma. A complete pathologic response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy, without the use of radiation, has infrequently been reported in operable chemo-naïve stage III esophageal adenocarcinoma patients.Twenty-nine eligible patients were enrolled in the study. Neoadjuvant therapy consisted of 5-fluorodeoxyuridine, leucovorin, oxaliplatin and docetaxel and was administered in two 4-week cycles. Following therapy, patients underwent surgical resection. Those patients having residual disease were offered adjuvant chemotherapy. Patients having a complete pathologic response were not offered any further chemotherapy.Twenty-four out of 29 patients finished neoadjuvant therapy and underwent curative esophagectomy. Two patients were declared inoperable after treatment, and three patients died prior to surgery. The median follow-up on all patients was 20.2 months. Median progression-free survival and median overall survival were 13.6 and 21.4 months, respectively. Clinical response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy was seen in 21 out of 29 patients (72.4%). Complete pathologic response with neoadjuvant chemotherapy was seen in 4 out of 24 patients (16.7%). Those four patients have been alive and progression-free for 20-37 months. Grade 3-4 toxicities occurred in 16 of the 29 patients during neoadjuvant therapy. Grade 3-4 toxicities were seen in 6 out of 14 patients during adjuvant therapy. (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography standardized uptake values of ≥8 correlated with better progression-free survival.5-Fluorodeoxyuridine, leucovorin, oxaliplatin and docetaxel regimen is active in patients with esophageal adenocarcinoma. Toxicity profiles are manageable. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy allowed achievement of complete pathologic response without radiation. (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography standardized uptake values might be prognostic.