Troponin T levels and infarct size by SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging. To evaluate the relationship between serial cardiac troponin T (cTnT) levels with infarct size and left ventricular ejection fraction by gated single-photon emission computed tomography myocardial perfusion imaging (SPECT-MPI) in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI).Current guidelines recommend the use of cTnT as the biomarker of choice for the diagnosis of AMI. Data relating cTnT to SPECT-MPI in patients with AMI are limited.A subset of patients with their first AMI participating in a community-based cohort of AMI in Olmsted County, Minnesota, were prospectively studied. Serial cTnT levels were evaluated at presentation, <12 h and 1, 2, and 3 days after onset of pain. Peak cTnT was defined as the maximum cTnT value.A total of 121 patients (age, 61 ± 13 years 31% women) with AMI underwent gated SPECT-MPI at a median (25th percentile, 75th percentile) of 10 (5, 15) days post-AMI. The type of infarct was non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction in 61%, and 13% were anterior in location. The median infarct size was 1% (0%, 11%) and the median gated left ventricular ejection fraction was 54% (47%, 60%). Fifty-nine patients (49% of the population) had no measurable infarction by SPECT-MPI. Independent predictors of measurable SPECT-MPI infarct size included cTnT at days 1, 2, and 3 and peak cTnT, but not at presentation or <12 h. In receiver-operator characteristic analysis, the area under the curve was highest at day 3. Receiver-operator characteristic analysis demonstrated a cutoff of 1.5 ng/ml for peak cTnT for the detection of measurable infarct size.In a community-based cohort of patients with their first AMI, independent predictors of measurable SPECT-MPI infarct size included cTnT at days 1, 2, and 3 and peak cTnT. In contrast, cTnT level at presentation and <12 h was not an independent predictor of myocardial infarction size as assessed by SPECT-MPI. Receiver-operator characteristic analysis demonstrated a cutoff value peak cTnT of 1.5 ng/ml for the detection of measurable infarct.