¹¹C-methionine uptake and intraoperative 5-aminolevulinic acid-induced fluorescence as separate index markers of cell density in glioma: a stereotactic image-histological analysis. The extent of tumor resection is acknowledged as 1 of the prognostic factors for glioma. 5-Aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA)-induced fluorescence guidance and neuronavigation integrated with (11) C-methionine positron emission tomography (PET) are widely utilized under the expectation of improving the extent of resection. These 2 novel approaches are beneficial for glioma resections, and the combination of these approaches appears rational. However, biological characteristics reflecting 5-ALA-induced fluorescence and (11) C-methionine uptake have not been clearly elucidated, and studies about the relationship between 5-ALA-induced fluorescence and (11) C-methionine uptake have been limited. The present study aimed to clarify this issue.Data from 11 consecutive patients harboring astrocytic tumors were analyzed: 2 grade II and 2 grade III, and 7 grade IV tumors were included. Thirty samples from these patients were obtained from the relative periphery of each tumor. Relationships among histology, 5-ALA-induced fluorescence and (11) C-methionine uptake were analyzed by stereotactic sampling and image analysis.Uptake of (11) C-methionine correlated with cell density (R(2) = 0.322, P = .0059). Cell density was higher in fluorescence-positive areas than in negative areas (2760 ± 1080 vs 1450 ± 1380/mm(2) , P = .0132). Although both (11) C-methionine uptake and fluorescence seemed to correlate with cell density, no significant difference in (11) C-methionine uptake was seen between fluorescence-positive and -negative areas (P = .367). Multiple linear regression analysis revealed (11) C-methionine uptake and 5-ALA-induced fluorescence as independent indices for tumor cell density.These results indicate that 5-ALA fluorescence and (11) C-methionine PET image are separate index markers for cytoreduction surgery of gliomas.