Fetal karyotyping after 28 weeks of gestation for late ultrasound findings in a low risk population. To analyze the indications and the results of invasive testing for fetal karyotyping for ultrasound abnormality in the third trimester of pregnancy, when first- and second-trimester screening tests were negative.Retrospective study of 171 consecutive pregnancies that underwent invasive testing after 28 weeks of gestation in 2 institutions between January 1999 and December 2001. Forty-one patients did not have any form of screening for fetal aneuploidy beforehand. One hundred and thirty of them had a normal first-trimester scan and a low risk of fetal aneuploidy by nuchal translucency and/or maternal serum screening and were included in the statistical analysis.Mean maternal age, gestational age at diagnosis and at invasive testing were 30.5 years 29.3 weeks and 32.5 weeks respectively. Amniocentesis and fetal blood sampling were performed in 97 and 33 cases respectively. The most frequent indications for invasive testing in the third trimester were major fetal malformations (51%) and intrauterine growth restriction (19%) detected on routine second- or third-trimester ultrasound examination. Ultrasound markers of aneuploidy and polyhydramnios accounted for 17 and 11% of the indications respectively. Fetal karyotype was normal in 121/130 cases. A gene mutation was found in one case. The karyotype was abnormal in nine cases, including seven cases of aneuploidy (one Turner syndrome, three trisomy 18, and three trisomy 21) and two cases of structural chromosomal abnormalities (46,XX, del 4 p16.1 and 46,XX, dup1). One hundred cases resulted in the delivery of a normal baby. Thirty cases led to termination of pregnancy or intrauterine death due to major fetal malformations (N = 25), abnormal karyotype in six of these, and severe IUGR (N = 5) with normal karyotype. Fetal US markers of aneuploidy and isolated polyhydramnios were associated with a favorable outcome in all cases.A significant increase in the risk of chromosomal anomaly was seen when two or more anomalies were found, rising from 2% with one anomaly to 21% when two or more anomalies were present.In low risk patients, fetal karyotyping in the third trimester may be justified when the diagnosis of fetal malformation is made in the third trimester of pregnancy. Two or more anomalies increase the risk of fetal aneuploidy even with a negative-screening test in the first and second trimester of pregnancy.