Physicians' acceptability of termination of pregnancy after prenatal diagnosis in southern France. The acceptability of prenatal diagnosis for Down's syndrome has been extensively studied over the last 15 years but that of other pathologies remains largely unexplored. The main goals of this study were to approach physicians' opinions on six reasons for termination of pregnancy showing different deficiencies, i.e., Down's, Turner and Klinefelter syndromes, cystic fibrosis, spina bifida, and haemophilia, and to identify the origins of reserves. The influence of sociodemographic and professional characteristics of physicians on their opinions and attitudes during the consultation were studied. The data presented are based on information gathered in 1985 by a mailed questionnaire answered by 853 general practitioners, gynaecologists, obstetricians, and pediatricians in the Marseilles Genetic Centre's region. Stepwise logistic regression was used for the multivariate analysis. The results showed that 78 per cent of those answering favour termination of pregnancy for Down's syndrome and that only moral reticences were mentioned by the physicians opposed. Conversely, for haemophilia, only 21 per cent of the physicians considered this indication justified those opposed were for the most part concerned that severity of illness did not justify termination of pregnancy. Overall, 33 per cent of physicians would voice their personal opinion on termination of pregnancy if so requested by consultees. Results on the influence of age and specialty evidenced their role on physicians' opinions. Indeed, 30 per cent of physicians opposed to pregnancy termination for one of the six fetal anomalies retained herein would modify their positions if diagnosis were possible in the first trimester of pregnancy.In 1985, researchers from the Marseilles Genetic Centre in southern France surveyed general practitioners, gynecologists, obstetricians, and pediatricians on their acceptability of abortions after prenatal diagnosis.  34% (657) of general practitioners in the region responded as did 53% (196) of the specialists.  A multivariate adjustment was necessary in this study because of the sociodemographic variables that are linked to the physicians' opinions.  The researchers limited the variables to Down's, Turner, and Klinefelter syndromes spina bifida