Ethical issues in prenatal diagnosis. Prenatal diagnosis raises complex ethical issues not only in terms of individual decision making, but also in the development of clinical services and the formulation of public policy regarding access and funding.  The motivation behind prenatal diagnosis is generally to provide the family with information regarding the pregnancy so that the outcome can be improved or, in the case of severely affected pregnancies, a decision can be made about pregnancy termination.  Although many of the ethical issues involved in prenatal diagnosis and treatment overlap those common to all types of diagnostic procedures, the former situation is complicated by controversy about the moral status of the fetus and the use of selective abortion as a form of treatment.  While there is general agreement that pregnancy termination after the 2nd trimester can be justified if the fetus is afflicted with a condition that is incompatible with postnatal survival or characterized by the virtual absence of cognitive functioning, the disposition of a fetus afflicted with a non-life-threatening physical or mental disability (e.g., Down's syndrome) is more controversial.  An additional concern is that women with positive screening test results may choose elective abortion rather than undergo a definitive work-up.  The issue of maternal  versus fetal rights is perhaps the single most controversial dilemma.  Here, the basic ethical dilemma is the conflict between respecting maternal autonomy versus acting beneficently toward the fetus.  As a general rule, the more invasive the medical technique and the less certain the benefit to the fetus (e.g., laparotomy), the more difficult it is to make a convincing argument for forced interventions involving the mother's body.  Situations in which compelling arguments can be made for forced interventions against the will of the mother are those where an otherwise healthy infant will die without immediate intervention or failure to perform a procedure will result in the birth of a newborn that is alive but seriously damaged.  A final ethical issue is the need for the use of proxy decision makers for the fetus.  Except in situations where there are doubts about a mother's capacity to make sound decisions, the role of proxy is ordinarily assigned to the parents.