Effect of allowing for ethnic group in prenatal screening for Down's syndrome. We conducted a study to investigate ethnic group differences in levels of serum markers used in screening for Down's syndrome [serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), unconjugated oestriol (uE3), total human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG), free alpha- and free beta-hCG, and dimeric inhibin-A], to estimate the extent to which maternal weight differences between ethnic groups explain these differences, and to estimate the effect of adjusting for ethnic group and maternal weight on screening performance. Serum measurements were taken from women who were screened prenatally for Down's syndrome. AFP, uE3, and hCG concentrations were available from 9462 white, 4215 black, and 4392 South Asian women with singleton pregnancies without Down's syndrome or neural tube defects between 15 and 22 weeks' gestational age. Frozen serum samples were available from a subset of 922 white, 449 black, and 135 South Asian women and were used for measurement of free alpha-hCG, free beta-hCG, and inhibin. Values were expressed as multiples of the median (MOM) for women of the same gestational age. There were statistically significant differences in the serum marker levels between ethnic groups that were not explained by differences in maternal weight. The main differences were found in black women compared with white women black women had serum AFP levels 22 per cent higher (95 per cent confidence interval 20-24 per cent), total hCG levels 19 per cent higher (16-22 per cent), and free beta-hCG levels 12 per cent (3-21 per cent) higher. The other differences were less than 10 per cent. Adjusting for ethnic group only had a small estimated effect on screening performance: a maximum of about 0.5 per cent extra detection at a 5 per cent false-positive rate. At a fixed risk cut-off level, the false-positive rate will not be materially different between different ethnic groups. Adjusting serum markers for ethnic groups improves Down's syndrome screening performance to a very small extent. It is worthwhile because of its established value in AFP screening for open neural tube defects.