Impact of FDG PET on patients with differentiated thyroid cancer who present with elevated thyroglobulin and negative 131I scan. FDG PET is increasingly performed in patients with differentiated thyroid cancer who present with elevated human thyroglobulin (hTG) levels and negative 131I scan. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of FDG PET on treatment in these patients.A total of 118 FDG PET studies were performed on 64 patients, and follow-up data were available for all patients. Whole-body images were acquired 1 h after intravenous injection of 370 MBq (10 mCi) FDG using a PET scanner with an axial field of view of 16.2 cm. Tumor-suspicious FDG PET studies were evaluated by histology, cytology, 131I uptake, CT or MRI, and follow-up of hTg levels. The therapeutic consequence was noted for each patient. Moreover, results of FDG PET were correlated with hTg levels.Forty-four patients had positive scans, which were proven to be true-positive in 34 patients, whereas 7 patients had false-positive findings. Two patients exhibited a secondary malignancy. One patient did not fit in any category, having true-positive, false-positive, and false-negative findings. On the other hand, 20 patients had negative scans. These were true-negative findings in 5 patients, whereas the remaining 15 patients had false-negative results. Accordingly, the positive predictive value of FDG PET was 83% (34/41), whereas the negative predictive value was 25% (5/20). Treatment was directly changed in 19 of 34 patients with true-positive PET studies: 18 patients had further surgery, and 4 patients were referred for external irradiation, 3 of them after incomplete removal of local recurrences. FDG PET showed widespread disease in 7 patients thus, palliative treatment, rather than curative therapy, was initiated. True-positive FDG PET findings were correlated positively with increasing hTg levels (i.e., FDG PET was true-positive in 11%, 50%, and 93% of patients with hTg levels of <10, 10-20, and >100 microg/L, respectively).FDG PET is a valuable diagnostic tool in patients with differentiated thyroid cancer who present with increased hTg levels and negative 131I scans because it permits selection of patients for surgery, which may be curative. FDG PET is most promising at hTg levels of >10 microg/L.