Changes in nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits expression in brain of patients with Down syndrome and Alzheimer's disease. Cholinergic deficit associated with loss of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) has been described in Alzheimer's disease (AD) by receptor binding assays, positron emission tomography and immunoblotting. However, little is known about the alteration of these receptors in a related disease, Down syndrome (DS) which might be of importance for therapeutic strategies. The protein levels of neuronal nAChR alpha and beta subunits in human postmortem brain samples (frontal cortex and cerebellum) of control, adult DS, and AD were investigated by making use of western blot analysis. Two major bands at 26 and 45 kDa for alpha3, one at 50 kDa for alpha4 and beta2, and one at 45 kDa for alpha7 were detected by the respective antibodies. Specific alteration in individual subunits was also apparent in DS and AD. In frontal cortex, the 45kDa alpha3 subunit was significantly increased in DS (121%) (P < 0.05) and AD (93%) (P < 0.05), whereas the 26kDa, an isoform/truncated form of alpha3, displayed a reversed pattern. It was significantly decreased in DS (75%) (P < 0.001) and AD (52.6%) (P < 0.05). Alpha4 was comparable in all groups by contrast, alpha7 was significantly decreased in AD (64%) (P < 0.05). In DS, however, although the levels tended to be lower (17.3%) the reduction was not significant. Beta2 was unchanged in AD but showed a significant increase in DS frontal cortex (98.1%) (P < 0.01). In cerebellum, no significant alteration was observed in any of the subunits except beta2. It exhibited a significant increase (161%) (P < 0.01) in DS. Derangement in expression of nAChRs is apparent in DS, as in AD that may have some relevance to DS neuropathology. Furthermore, the increase in beta2 expression indicate that these subunits may have more than a structural role. Hence, therapeutic strategies tailored towards these end might be of some benefit for cognitive enhancement in these disorders.