Dopamine D2 receptor binding in the human brain is associated with the response to painful stimulation and pain modulatory capacity. The pain modulatory role of dopamine D2 receptors of the human forebrain was studied by determining the association between dopamine D2 receptor binding potential and the response to experimental pain. Nineteen healthy male volunteers participated in a dopamine D2 receptor positron emission tomography study. The extrastriatal regions of interest studied with [11C]FLB 457 as radioligand (n = 11) were the anterior cingulum, the medial and lateral thalamus, the medial and lateral frontal cortex, and the medial and lateral temporal cortex. The striatal regions of interest studied with [11C]raclopride (n = 8) were the caudate nucleus and the putamen. The latency to the ice water-induced cold pain threshold and tolerance were determined in a separate psychophysical test session. Moreover, the cutaneous heat pain threshold and its elevation by concurrent cold pain in the contralateral hand were determined in each subject. Cold pain threshold was inversely correlated with D2 binding potential in the right putamen and the cold pain tolerance was inversely correlated with D2 binding potential in the right medial temporal cortex. The magnitude of heat pain threshold elevation induced by concurrent cold pain was directly correlated with D2 binding potential in the left putamen. Other correlations of D2 binding potentials in varying brain regions with sensory responses were not significant. A psychophysical control study (n = 10) showed that cold pain responses were identical in the right and left hand. The results indicate that dopamine D2 receptor binding potential in the human forebrain, particularly in the striatum, may be an important parameter in determining the individual cold pain response and the potential for central pain modulation. Accordingly, an individual with only few available D2 receptors in the forebrain is likely to have a high tonic level of pain suppression, combined with a low capacity to recruit more (dopaminergic) central pain inhibition by noxious conditioning stimulation.