Myocardial perfusion and left ventricular function during exercise evaluated by 201Tl myocardial scintigraphy and 99mTc radionuclide ventriculography in patients treated with PTCA. To evaluate the effects of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), we investigated myocardial ischemia and left ventricular function during exercise before and after successful PTCA in 30 patients. We used extent and severity scores of 201thallium (201Tl) exercise myocardial scintigraphy to assess myocardial ischemia and determined global and regional left ventricular ejection fraction (EF and REF) of 99mTc-RBC exercise radionuclide ventriculography to assess left ventricular function. The extent and severity scores of stress images were significantly less after PTCA than before PTCA. The scores of the redistribution images were unchanged before and after PTCA. Global EF during exercise was significantly higher after PTCA than before PTCA. There was no difference in resting global EF between before and after PTCA. Myocardial ischemia induced by exercise was semi-quantitatively analyzed as transient perfusion defect with severity score. Severity score was significantly less after PTCA than before PTCA. delta EF, which was obtained by subtraction of resting global EF from exercise one, was significantly higher after PTCA than before PTCA. However, the degree of improvement in myocardial ischemia and left ventricular function varied from patient to patient. In 17 patients with one-vessel left anterior descending artery disease, delta REF, which was determined by subtracting resting regional EF from exercise one, was significantly higher in septal and apical segments after PTCA than before PTCA. Myocardial ischemia and left ventricular function under exercise were alleviated by PTCA. However, the degree of improvement varied from patient to patient and it might have been affected by various factors including coronary dissection, edema, thrombus, restenosis, spasm, side branch stenosis or occlusion, distal thrombus, and myocardial hibernation.