Retrospective interactive rigid fusion of (18)F-FDG-PET and CT. Additional diagnostic information in melanoma patients. This study investigates whether interactive rigid fusion of routine PET and CT data improves localization, detection and characterization of lesions compared to separate reading. For this purpose, routine PET and CT scans of patients with metastases from malignant melanoma were used.In 34 patients with histologically confirmed malignant melanoma, FDG-PET and spiral CT were performed using clinical standard protocols. For all of these patients, gold standard was available. Clinical and radiological follow-up identified 82 lesions as definitely pathological. Two board-certified nuclear medicine physicians and two board-certified radiologists analyzed PET and CT images independently from each other. For each patient up to 32 anatomical regions (24 lymph node regions, 8 extranodular regions) were systematically classified. Discordant areas were interactively analyzed in manually and rigidly registered images using a commercially available fusion tool. No side-by-side reading was performed.Image fusion disclosed that the evaluation of the PET images alone led to a mislocalization in 26 of 91 focally FDG enhancing lesions. The overall sensitivities of PET, CT, and image fusion were 85, 88, and 94%, respectively the overall specificities of PET, CT and image fusion were 98, 95 and 100%, respectively. Image fusion exhibited statistically significant higher specificity values as compared with CT. Ten definitely malignant sites were false-negative in CT, but could be detected by PET. On the other hand, twelve metastases were false-negative in PET, but could be detected by CT. These included two lesions, which had a clear correlate on the PET image when the fused images were evaluated. On the whole, registration of the PET and CT images yielded additional diagnostic information in 44% of the definitely malignant lesions.Retrospective image fusion of independently obtained PET and CT data is particularly valuable in exactly localizing foci of abnormal FDG uptake and improves the detection of metastases of malignant melanoma.