Development of activity pencil beam algorithm using measured distribution data of positron emitter nuclei generated by proton irradiation of targets containing (12)C, (16)O, and (40)Ca nuclei in preparation of clinical application. The purpose of this study is to develop a new calculation algorithm that is satisfactory in terms of the requirements for both accuracy and calculation time for a simulation of imaging of the proton-irradiated volume in a patient body in clinical proton therapy.The activity pencil beam algorithm (APB algorithm), which is a new technique to apply the pencil beam algorithm generally used for proton dose calculations in proton therapy to the calculation of activity distributions, was developed as a calculation algorithm of the activity distributions formed by positron emitter nuclei generated from target nuclear fragment reactions. In the APB algorithm, activity distributions are calculated using an activity pencil beam kernel. In addition, the activity pencil beam kernel is constructed using measured activity distributions in the depth direction and calculations in the lateral direction. (12)C, (16)O, and (40)Ca nuclei were determined as the major target nuclei that constitute a human body that are of relevance for calculation of activity distributions. In this study, "virtual positron emitter nuclei" was defined as the integral yield of various positron emitter nuclei generated from each target nucleus by target nuclear fragment reactions with irradiated proton beam. Compounds, namely, polyethylene, water (including some gelatin) and calcium oxide, which contain plenty of the target nuclei, were irradiated using a proton beam. In addition, depth activity distributions of virtual positron emitter nuclei generated in each compound from target nuclear fragment reactions were measured using a beam ON-LINE PET system mounted a rotating gantry port (BOLPs-RGp). The measured activity distributions depend on depth or, in other words, energy. The irradiated proton beam energies were 138, 179, and 223 MeV, and measurement time was about 5 h until the measured activity reached the background level. Furthermore, the activity pencil beam data were made using the activity pencil beam kernel, which was composed of the measured depth data and the lateral data including multiple Coulomb scattering approximated by the Gaussian function, and were used for calculating activity distributions.The data of measured depth activity distributions for every target nucleus by proton beam energy were obtained using BOLPs-RGp. The form of the depth activity distribution was verified, and the data were made in consideration of the time-dependent change of the form. Time dependence of an activity distribution form could be represented by two half-lives. Gaussian form of the lateral distribution of the activity pencil beam kernel was decided by the effect of multiple Coulomb scattering. Thus, the data of activity pencil beam involving time dependence could be obtained in this study.The simulation of imaging of the proton-irradiated volume in a patient body using target nuclear fragment reactions was feasible with the developed APB algorithm taking time dependence into account. With the use of the APB algorithm, it was suggested that a system of simulation of activity distributions that has levels of both accuracy and calculation time appropriate for clinical use can be constructed.