Molecular imaging of potential bone metastasis from differentiated thyroid cancer: a case report. Molecular imaging of the spine is a rarely used diagnostic method for which only a few case reports exist in the literature. Here, to the best of our knowledge we present the first case of a combination of molecular imaging by single photon emission computer tomography and positron emission tomography used in post-operative spinal diagnostic assessment.We present the case of a 50-year-old Caucasian woman experiencing progressive spinal cord compression caused by a vertebral metastasis of a less well differentiated thyroid cancer. Following tumor resection and vertebral stabilization, total thyroidectomy was performed revealing follicular thyroid carcinoma pT2 pNxM1 (lung, bone). During follow-up our patient underwent five radioiodine therapy procedures (5.3 to 5.7 GBq each) over a two-year period. Post-therapeutic I-131 scans showed decreasing uptake in multiple Pulmonary metastases. However, following an initial decrease, stimulated thyroglobulin remained at pathologically increased levels, indicating further neoplastic activity. F18 Fludeoxyglucose positron emission tomography, which was performed in parallel, showed remaining hypermetabolism in the lungs but no hypermetabolism of the spinal lesions correlating with the stable neurological examinations. While on single photon emission computer tomography images Pulmonary hyperfixation of I-131 disappeared (most likely indicating dedifferentiation), there was persistent spinal hyperfixation at the operated level and even higher fixation at the spinal process of L3. Based on the negative results of the spinal F18 fludeoxyglucose positron emission tomography, a decision was made not to operate again on the spine since our patient was completely asymptomatic and the neurological risk seemed to be too high. During further follow-up our patient remained neurologically stable.Molecular imaging by F18 fludeoxyglucose positron emission tomography helps to exclude metabolically active spinal metastases and to spare further risky surgery.