The agreement of left ventricular function parameters between (99m)Tc-tetrofosmin gated myocardial SPECT and gated myocardial MRI. The aim is to compare and evaluate the agreement of quantification of left ventricular functional parameters obtained by two different methods, (99m)Tc-tetrofosmin gated myocardial perfusion SPECT (MPS) and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR).Ten healthy male volunteers participated. Gated MPS data were acquired using 32 frames, which were also combined into 16- and 8-frame data set for the investigation. Gated CMR data were acquired using 8, 16 and 32-frame for the different sets. All examinations were conducted in resting and at exercise conditions. Quantitative measurements of end-diastolic volume (EDV), end-systolic volume (ESV), left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), peak ejection rate (PER), peak filling rate (PFR) and time to peak filling (TTPF) were done for each study, respectively. Finally, we evaluated the concordance of parameters between gated MPS and gated CMR by % difference and Bland-Altman plot analysis.LVEF showed favorable concordance in both rest and exercise conditions (% differences were around 10%). PER, PFR and TTPF also showed good concordances in rest conditions, under 32-frame gated collections particularly (% differences were around 10%). In exercise conditions, although the concordances were relatively good, certain variances were noted (% differences were around 20-25%). Regarding left ventricular volumes, the concordance were worse in both conditions (% differences were around 30-40%).In quantifying of left ventricular function parameter, gated CMR provides similar quantitative values comparing with gated MPS except for ventricular volumes in rest conditions. In contrast, there were certain variations except for LVEF in exercised examinations. When we follow patients by the same cardiac parameters with CMR and MPS, using parameters across the two modalities proved to be possible under rest condition. However, it is limited at exercise condition.