Relationship between impaired blood pressure control and multiple system involvement in chronic alcoholics. Chronic ethyl alcohol (ethanol) abuse is associated with different types of neurological involvement. Impaired blood pressure control such as in hypertension and/or orthostatic hypotension is a known autonomic dysfunction in chronic alcoholics. Although abstinence appears to improve blood pressure, the precise mechanisms underlying the effects of alcohol remain unknown. We suspected that abnormal blood pressure might influence the outcome of alcohol-related neurological symptoms. We therefore reviewed the alcohol history of 28 male patients admitted to our hospital with multiple system involvement. No family history of spinocerebellar degeneration was found. All of the patients had a history of chronic alcohol abuse. The duration of alcohol abuse in 28 patients was 28.8 + 11.2 yrs. Daily ethanol consumption was less than 83 ml in 6 patients between 83 ml and 138 ml in 11 and more than 138 ml in 11. We assessed the relationship between impaired blood pressure control, clinical characteristics, and outcome after abstinence for a period ranging from 30 days to 6 years in 22 chronic alcoholics who had drunk more than 83 ml/day. All of the patients had various types of autonomic dysfunction, and a high incidence of impaired blood pressure control and decreased CVR-R were noted. The symptoms improved or even completely resolved after cessation of alcohol consumption, however, 8 of the 22 patients in our study reached a plateau and have permanent symptoms. Patients with no improvement as a result of abstinence had a long history of excessive drinking. Brain CT/MRI, SPECT and P300 studies were conducted. SPECT and P300 were performed in both the supine and standing position in 5 and 7 patients, respectively. Five patients who had severe orthostatic hypotension with syncope were found to have cerebrovascular lesions on MRI. Changes in P300 amplitude and/or distribution and latency were noted after a fall in blood pressure. Although the etiology of impaired blood pressure control in alcoholics remains unknown, we believe that abnormal blood pressure affects the outcome of alcohol-related neurological symptoms.