Endoscopic treatment of distal bile duct stricture from chronic pancreatitis. Endoscopic placement of biliary stents is an effective initial treatment for jaundice and cholangitis caused by common bile duct (CBD) strictures secondary to chronic pancreatitis however, the role of endoscopic treatment for long-term management of these strictures is less clear. In 1992, we designed a protocol of balloon dilatation and stenting for > or =12 months. This study evaluates endoscopic therapy as a definitive long-term treatment for these strictures. We have treated 25 patients with this protocol.All patients had an endoscopic sphincterotomy, balloon dilatation of the stricture, and then placement of a polyethylene stent (7-11.5 F). Stents were exchanged at 3-4-month intervals to avoid the complications of clogging and cholangitis. We were particularly interested in how many patients would achieve resolution of the stricture and tolerate removal of the stent.The length of the CBD strictures ranged from 8 to 40 mm. Within days of stenting, all patients achieved relief of jaundice and cholestasis. Complications consisted of six episodes of cholangitis and nine episodes of pancreatitis. There were no deaths. Twenty of the 25 patients are now stent-free after an average stenting period of 13 months (range, 3-28). To date, there has been no recurrence of stricture, for a mean of 32 months. Three patients still have stents in place, and two patients required operation--one for persistent stricture and recurrent cholangitis after 8 months of stenting, and one for a mass in the head of the pancreas that was thought to be cancer.Our results indicate that these strictures will respond and dilate after a course of stenting in 80% of patients, with an acceptable morbidity. Although these are medium-term results at 32 months, we would expect most recurrences within the 1st year following stent removal. In some cases, stenting is necessary for >12 months. Thus, the data suggest that endoscopic stenting provides definitive treatment in most patients with CBD stricture due to chronic pancreatitis and may be considered a viable alternative to standard surgical bypass.