Spleen-preserving laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy for cystic adenoma. For borderline malignant diseases of the pancreas such as cystic adenoma, partial pancreatectomy or pancreatoduodenectomy including pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy have been performed depending on tumor location under large median laparotomy. To investigate the feasibility of a technique with minimal skin incision, while retaining safety equivalent to conventional resection of the pancreatic tail, by making use of the advantages of laparoscopic procedure, we performed a minimally invasive laparoscopic resection of the pancreatic tail with preservation of the spleen. A 69-year-old woman underwent surgery for a diagnostic therapy for a cystic lesion of the pancreatic tail. The procedure was performed as follows: All procedures were performed completely laparoscopically under CO2 insufflation. After dissection of the omentum, laparoscopic ultrasound was performed to identify the location of the tumor and splenic vessels. The splenic hilus was dissected with preservation of the splenocolic ligament to maintain the lower blood supply to the spleen. The left gastroepiploic artery and the short gastric arteries and veins could be preserved. After division of the splenic hilus, the splenic artery and vein were identified from behind the pancreas by being held up and dissected individually by intracorporeal ligation by 3-0 Nylon. Then, pancreatic transection was performed 1 cm proximal to the tumor with the Endo-GIAII. The duration of operation was 4.5 hours. Intraoperative blood loss was under 50 mL. Histological examination revealed mucinous cytadenoma. She could walk the day after surgery and was discharged from the hospital uneventfully. CT prior to discharge from the hospital revealed sufficient blood flow in the spleen. Thus, it may be feasible to select laparoscopic spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy as a first choice for diagnostic therapy for cystic lesions of the pancreatic tail.