An endoscopic pancreatic function test with synthetic porcine secretin for the evaluation of chronic abdominal pain and suspected chronic pancreatitis. Pancreatic function tests are the most reliable methods for the diagnosis or exclusion of chronic pancreatitis in patients without obvious radiologic changes, but they are cumbersome, time consuming, and unavailable in clinical practice. Synthetic porcine secretin, a 27 amino acid peptide identical to the biologic form, is available for exocrine function testing. This study examined the utility of a simple, newly developed, purely endoscopic pancreatic function test with synthetic porcine secretin.Three groups of patients were studied: patients with chronic abdominal pain with and without risk factors for chronic pancreatitis, and patients with advanced chronic pancreatitis. All patients with abdominal pain had "pancreatic type" pain for greater than 6 months and negative radiographic imaging studies. All patients with chronic pancreatitis had advanced disease based on retrograde pancreatography and/or CT findings. Participants underwent the following protocol: (1) standard endoscopy to the descending duodenum with the patient under conscious sedation (2) intravenous administration of secretin (0.2 microgram/kg)Eighteen patients were studied (5 abdominal pain without risk factors, 7 abdominal pain with risk factors, and 6 advanced chronic pancreatitis). Median peak (interquartile range) bicarbonate concentrations in meq/L for each group were, respectively, 87 (6, range 84-108), 72 (10, range 68-90), and 35 (27, range 18-88). Median peak bicarbonate concentration values for the 3 groups are significantly different (p = 0.010 Kruskal-Wallis test). Bicarbonate secretion in patients with chronic pancreatitis was markedly reduced compared with that in patients with abdominal pain without risk factors (p = 0.038A simple endoscopic pancreatic function test with synthetic porcine secretin appears to distinguish patients with known chronic pancreatitis from those with chronic abdominal pain without chronic pancreatitis. This simple, practical endoscopic test can be performed during upper endoscopy and may decrease the need for invasive procedures in patients with abdominal pain and normal radiographic imaging studies.