Effect of iodine concentration of contrast media on contrast enhancement in multislice CT of the pancreas. The purpose of this study was to determine the influence of two different iodine concentrations of the non-ionic contrast agent, Iomeprol, on contrast enhancement in multislice CT (MSCT) of the pancreas. To achieve this MSCT of the pancreas was performed in 50 patients (mean age 57+/-14 years) with suspected or known pancreatic tumours. The patients were randomly assigned to group A (n=25 patients) or group B (n=25 patients). There were no statistically significant differences in age, height or weight between the patients of the two groups. The contrast agent, Iomeprol, was injected with iodine concentrations of 300 mg ml(-1) in group A (130 ml, injection rate 5 ml s(-1)) and 400 mg ml(-1) in group B (98 ml, injection rate 5 ml s(-1)). Arterial and portal venous phase contrast enhancement (HU) of the vessels, organs, and pancreatic masses were measured and a qualitative image assessment was performed by two independent readers. In the arterial phase, Iomeprol 400 led to a significantly greater enhancement in the aorta, superior mesenteric artery, coeliac trunk, pancreas, pancreatic carcinomas, kidneys, spleen and wall of the small intestine than Iomeprol 300. Portal venous phase enhancement was significantly greater in the pancreas, pancreatic carcinomas, wall of the small intestine and portal vein with Iomeprol 400. The two independent readers considered Iomeprol 400 superior over Iomeprol 300 concerning technical quality, contribution of the contrast agent to the diagnostic value, and evaluability of vessels in the arterial phase. No differences were found for tumour delineation and evaluability of infiltration of organs adjacent to the pancreas between the two iodine concentrations. In conclusion the higher iodine concentration leads to a higher arterial phase contrast enhancement of large and small arteries in MSCT of the pancreas and therefore improves the evaluability of vessels in the arterial phase.