Biliary ascariasis. Case report and review of the literature. Ascaris lumbricoides is the most common nematode found in the human gastrointestinal tract with a greater prevalence found in developing tropical and subtropical countries. Most cases of ascariasis follow a benign course. In some cases the adult parasite can invade the biliary or pancreatic ducts and cause obstruction with development of cholecystitis, cholangitis, pancreatitis, and hepatic abscesses. We report a case of a patient with biliary ascariasis.A 40-year-old woman, born and residing in San Cristobal de las Casas, Chiapas, was admitted with right upper quadrant pain of 2-week duration. Pain was accompanied by nausea, vomiting and fever. Exploration revealed pain upon deep palpation of right hypochondria. Laboratory examinations demonstrated elevation of alkaline phosphatase without jaundice, leukocyte count of 14,300 and ultrasonography with ascaris within the gallbladder and intra- and extrahepatic ducts without evidence of dilatation. Medical treatment with mebendazol was begun orally nevertheless, on the second day the patient reported an increase of the right hypochondria pain, vomiting and fever of 38 degrees C. Surgical treatment was decided upon. An open cholecystectomy was performed without evidence of parasites within the gallbladder. Expansion of the extrahepatic bile ducts was observed and a formal biliary exploration was carried out with extraction of 19 ascarids and colocalization of choledocostomy T-tube. At the third postoperative day, a T-tube cholangiography was done, showing residual ascarids in the biliary ducts that were resolved with a retrograde endoscopic cholangiopancreatography. The patient's evolution was without complications or fever and with adequate oral feeding posterior to biliary instrumentation.In obstructive biliary pathology, biliary ascariasis is a diagnosis that needs to be explored in our country. Knowledge of clinical symptoms, complications, and diagnostic and therapeutic options are of paramount importance for all health professionals in our country.