Appleby operation for carcinoma of the body and tail of the pancreas. Long-term survival of carcinomas in the body and tail of the pancreas after surgery is still rare. One of the major reasons for unresectability is cancerous invasion to major vessels, such as the common hepatic and splenic arteries. Resection of the involved arteries can increase resectability and thus might increase post-operative survival. The aim of this study was to clarify the importance of the Appleby operation for carcinoma of the body and tail of the pancreas. A Case Report was carried out with a 54 year-old man, had suffered back pain and loss of body weight for six months. Imaging procedures such as US, CT or angiography showed a carcinoma in the body of the pancreas, about 3 cm in size, and both the common hepatic and splenic arteries were invaded by the tumor. The Appleby operation was used for this patient, since firstly there was no invasion to the head of the pancreas, secondly neither the proper hepatic artery nor the SMA was involved, thirdly the root of the CA was free of carcinoma, and finally because clear pulsation of the proper hepatic artery could be felt one or two minutes after occlusion of the CHA, which indicated that resection of the CHA would not lead to hepatic ischemia. The postoperative course was uneventful. His appetite recovered well and his body weight increased to the level before the disease. The patient was relieved from back pain and has returned to work 18 months after the operation, although he had a local recurrence eight months after the operation. In addition, eleven cases with carcinoma of the body and tail of the pancreas were used for a literature review. The average survival time after the Appleby operation is 6.6 months, and four patients are still alive. One patient has survived 13 years after the operation. It was concluded that although the prognosis after Appleby procedure is still not satisfactory that this operation can at least offer patients a better quality of life.