<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-10-28</DATELINE><TITLE>Evaluation of potential herb-drug interactions between oseltamivir and commonly used anti-influenza Chinese medicinal herbs</TITLE><BODY>Abstract Ethnopharmacological relevance According to Traditional Chinese Medicine theory, influenza is categorized as a warm disease or Wen Bing. The Wen Bing formulas, such as Yin-Qiao-San and Sang-Ju-Yin, are still first-line herbal therapies in combating variant influenza virus. To continue our study on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between Wen Bing formulas and oseltamivir (OS), the first-line western drug for the treatment of influenza, further interactions between OS and the eight single herbs and their relevant marker components from Wen Bing formulas were investigated in the current study. Aim of study To establish an in-vitro screening platform for investigation of the potential anti-influenza herbs/herbal components that may have pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions with OS. Materials and methods To screen potential inhibition on OS hydrolysis, 1 μg/mL of OS is incubated with herbs/herbal components in diluted rat plasma, microsomes and human recombinant carboxylesterase 1(hCE1) under optimized conditions. MDCK-WT and MDCK-MDR1 cell lines are utilized to identify potential modification on P-gp mediated transport of OS by herbs/herbal components. Caco-2 cells with and without Gly-Sar inhibition are performed to study the uptake of OS via PEPT1 transporters. Modification on OAT3 mediated transport is verified by the uptake of OS on HEK293-MOCK/HEK293-OAT3 cells. Anti-virus effects were evaluated using plaque reduction assay on H1N1 and H3N2 viruses. Potential pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interaction between OS (30 mg/kg) and the selected herb, Radix Scutellariae (RS), at 300–600 mg/kg were carried out on rats. All samples are analyzed by an LC/MS/MS method for the contents of OS and OSA. A mechanistic PK model was developed to interpret the HDI between OS and RS in rats. Results Our developed platform was successfully applied to screen the eight herbal extracts and their ten marker components on metabolic inhibition of OS and modification of OS transport mediated by P-gp, OAT3 and PEPT1. Results from six in-vitro experiments were analyzed after converting raw data from each experiment to corresponding fold-change (FC) values, based on which Radix Scutellariae (RS) were selected to have the most HDI potential with OS. By analyzing the plasma and urine pharmacokinetic data after co-administration of OS with a standardized RS extract in rats using an integrated population pharmacokinetics model, it is suggested that RS could inhibit OS hydrolysis during absorption and increase the absorbed fraction of OS, which leads to the increased ratio of OS concentration versus that of OSA in both rat plasma and urine. Never the less, the anti-virus effects of 2.5 h post-dose rat plasma were not influenced by co-administration of OS with RS. Conclusion A six-dimension in-vitro screening platform has been developed and successfully applied to find RS as a potential herb that would influence the co-administrated OS in rats. Although co-administered RS could inhibit OS hydrolysis during absorption and increase the absorbed fraction of OS, which lead to the increased ratio of OS concentration versus that of OSA in both rat plasma and urine, the anti-virus effect of OS was not influenced by co-administered RS.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>