<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-03-30</DATELINE><TITLE>Bismarck and the Long Road to Universal Health Coverage</TITLE><BODY>The 2015 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) state that All United Nations Member States have agreed to try to achieve Universal Health Coverage by 2030. This includes financial risk protection, access to quality essential health care services and access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all. Universal health coverage (UHC) means inclusion and empowerment for all people to access medical care, including treatment and prevention services. UHC exists in all the industrial nations except the US, which has a mixed public-private system and struggles with closing the gap between the insured and the uninsured population. Middle- and low-income countries face many challenges for UHC achievement, including low levels of funding, lack of personnel, weak health management, and issues of availability of services favoring middle- and upper-class communities. Community health services for preventive and curative health services for needs in populations at risk for poor health in low-income countries must be addressed with proactive health promotion initiatives for the double burden of infectious and noncommunicable diseases. Each nation will develop its own unique approach to national health systems, but there are models used by a number of countries based on principles of national responsibility for health, social solidarity for providing funding, and for effective ways of providing care with comprehensiveness, efficiency, quality, and cost containment. Universal access does not eliminate social inequalities in health by itself, including a wide context of reducing social inequities. Understanding national health systems requires examining representative models of different systems. Health reform is necessarily a continuing process as all countries must adapt to face challenges of cost constraints, inequalities in access to care, aging populations, emergence of new disease conditions and advancing technology including the growing capacity of medicine, public health and health promotion. The growing stress of increasing obesity, diabetes, and other chronic diseases, requires nations to modify their health care systems. Learning from the systems developed in different countries helps to learn from the processes of change in other countries.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>