High incidence of benign testicular neoplasms diagnosed by ultrasound. We evaluated the clinical and histological significance of incidental ultrasonographic focal testicular lesions and assessed whether a conservative surgical approach may put the patient at higher oncological risk due to insufficient surgical eradication.From October 2000 to May 2002 all patients with infertility, scrotal swelling, scrotal pain, varicocele, scrotal trauma or erectile dysfunction underwent scrotal ultrasonography. A total of 1,320 patients were investigated. Focal testicular lesions were found in 27 patients (2%), palpable nodules were present in 17 (63%) and nonpalpable incidental lesions were diagnosed in 10. Nodule diameter was 3 to 24 mm. All patients underwent explorative surgery via inguinotomy and preventive clamping of the spermatic cord. The nodules were completely removed with biopsy of the resection margins. Nonpalpable lesions were removed under ultrasonographic guidance. The testicle was only preserved when frozen section revealed a benign lesion and margins were negative.Of the 17 cases of palpable lesions (diameter 3 to 24 mm) conservative surgery was performed in 8 (47%). Definitive histological diagnosis showed Leydig cell tumor in 2 (25%), and large cell calcifying Sertoli's cell tumor, adenomatoid tumor, pseudofibrotic tumor of the tunica albuginea, epidermoid cyst, tubular fibrosis and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in each 1 (12.5%). The remaining 9 patients (53%) underwent orchidectomy. Definitive histological examination revealed pure seminoma in 4 patients (44%), embryonal carcinoma in 4 (44%) and diffuse Leydig cell hyperplasia in 1 (12%). Seven of the 10 pts (70%) with nonpalpable nodules (diameter 4 to 16 mm) underwent conservative surgery. Histological study revealed focal Leydig cell hyperplasia in 1 case (10%), fibrosis in 3 (30%), infarction in 2 (20%) and mesothelial hyperplasia in 1 (10%). Orchiectomy was performed in the remaining 3 pts. Histology showed diffuse Leydig cell tumor in 2 pts (20%) and adenomatoid tumor with abscessed areas in 1 (10%). Neither atrophy nor local relapse was observed in pts who underwent conservative treatment during followup (mean: 1 month, range 19 to 9).The incidental diagnosis of testicular ultrasound alterations is increasing and 80% show a benign histology. In these cases a conservative surgical approach is the best option and it does not expose the patient to the risk of relapse.