The influence of the depth of embryo replacement into the uterine cavity on in vitro fertilization outcome. The aim of our study was to investigate the influence of the depth of embryo replacement into the uterine cavity on the implantation rate after embryo transfer carried out under transabdominal ultrasound guidance.This was a prospective observational study at the St Lazar Hospital, Skopje spisan patients with an indication for IVF or ICSI according to departmental protocol underwent controlled ovarian hyperstimulation followed by IVF/ICSI and embryo transfer. The highest quality embryos were selected for transfer, with quality being assessed based on cell number and number of cytoplasmic fragments. On the day od ET under direct transabdominal ultrasound guidance, the transfer catheter was advanced through the endocervical canal into the lower uterine segment. Immediate identification of the catheter tip was essential to minimize motion of the catheter and avoid any impact on the endometrium. The transfer catheter then was advanced to a defined distance from the uterine fundus, up to the point estimated for transfer: 10 +/- 2.5 mm and 15 +/- 2.5 mm respectively in A and B group. This measurement was verified by using the calipers prior to injection of the embryos.In total, 106 patients, aged 24-42 years were included in the study. The patients were divided into two groups according to the distance between the tip of the catheter and the uterine fundus at the time of embryo deposition in the cavity: group A: 10 +/- 2.5 mm group B: 15 +/- 2.5 mm. Of the patients studied, 47.16% were less than 35 years old, with only 11.3%% more than age 40 years. The majority (66.9%) of patients had either none or one previous transfer. In only 3.7% transfers was blood noted on the catheter tipIn conclusion, our results suggest that depth of embryo replacement inside the uterine cavity may influence the pregnancy rates and should be considered as an important factor to improve the success of IVF cycles.