The first experience of using a single-layer intra-abdominal collagen plate. The aim of this study was to define the possibility of using a collagen substance CollGARA as a protective barrier between the polypropylene mesh implant and abdominal organs. The drug is a sterile bioabsorbable membrane consisting of refolded equine collagen. Indications--use as barrier separating adjoining tissues and organs in the areas of the abdominal cavity, where the formation of adhesions.Were performed 10 operations in patients with ventral hernias with different localization. 8 patients had postoperative hernia in 2--linea alba hernia. 8 patients were operated open, 2--laparoscopically. After intra-abdominal hernia repair was performed plastic mesh implant, delimiting it from the abdominal cavity membrane CollGARA. Serious complications from the abdominal cavity and the surgical wound wasnt observed.The first experience with intra-abdominal plastic polypropylene mesh implant coated with collagen plate indicates the possibility of applying this method in the future.Цель исследования - определение возможности использования коллагеновой субстанции Колгара в качестве защитного барьера между сетчатым полипропиленовым имплантом и органами брюшной полости (БП). Препарат представляет собой стерильную биорассасывающуюся мембрану из ренатурированного лошадиного коллагена. Показание - применение в качестве барьера, разделяющего соприкасающиеся органы и ткани на участках БП, где возможно образование спаечного процесса. Материал и методы. Выполнены 10 операций у больных вентральными грыжами различной локализации. У 8 больных были послеоперационные грыжи, у 2 - грыжи белой линии живота. Оперированы открыто 8 пациентов, лапароскопически - 2. После грыжесечения производили интраабдоминальную пластику сетчатым имплантом, отграничивая его от органов БП мембраной Колгара. Серьезных осложнений со стороны органов БП и послеоперационной раны не наблюдали. Результаты. Первый опыт использования интраабдоминальной пластики сетчатого полипропиленового импланта, покрытого коллагеновой пластиной, указывает на возможность применения этого метода в дальнейшем.