Laparoscopic resection of choledochal cyst: report of a case. We report a choledochal cyst that was successfully treated with laparoscopic surgery. A 32-year-old Japanese woman was referred to our hospital with a suspected choledochal cyst. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography and computed tomography showed the common bile duct to be grossly dilated to the hepatic confluence. A diagnosis of type-Ia choledochal cyst in the Todani classification was made, and laparoscopic resection was performed. The patient was placed in the lithotomy position under general anesthesia, and 4 ports were inserted. After the cystic duct was dissected, the hepatoduodenal ligament was incised and a choledochal cyst was identified. Next, the common bile duct was mobilized and dissected away from the surrounding vessels and tissues. Taping of the common bile duct allowed better exposure and dissection of the surrounding tissues. Mobilization of the bile duct and dissection of the surrounding tissue was performed to the bifurcation of the common hepatic duct. Then the common hepatic duct was transected just distal to the choledochal cyst. The inferior common bile duct was dissected from the pancreas to identify the distal end of the choledochal cyst and the pancreaticobiliary junction behind the duodenum. The narrow segment of the choledochal cyst was identified and divided after distal closure with clips. After the gall bladder was dissected from the liver bed, the choledochal cyst and gallbladder were removed. A Roux limb was created extracorporeally via the umbilical incision. The jejunum 30 cm distal to the ligament of Treitz was removed through the transumbilical incision and transected. To create the Roux limb, the mesentery of the jejunum was also extracorporeally separated. A 50-cm Roux limb was made by means of side-to-side anastomosis with an endostapler. After a jejunostomy for hepaticojejunostomy anastomosis was created, the Roux limb was returned to the abdominal cavity. Then, pneumoperitoneum was started again, and the Roux limb was brought up laparoscopically in a retrocolic fashion. An end-to-side hepaticojejunostomy was intracorporeally established with a continuous, single-layer full-thickness 4-0 vicryl suture. Total operation time was 715 minutes. Intraoperative body fluid loss was 250 mL, and the postoperative course was uneventful with no major complications. The patient was discharged from hospital on the 12th postoperative day. She remains asymptomatic with normal liver function after 24 months of follow-up.