A new, simple, non-invasive imaging technique of internal organs and various cancer tissues using extended principles of the "Bi-Digital O-Ring Test" without using expensive imaging instruments or exposing the patient to any undesirable radiation--Part I. A new, simple, non-invasive and inexpensive imaging method of internal organs, using the "Bi-Digital O-Ring Test" was developed by the author. This new imaging technique does not require any bulky expensive instruments or electric power source. Unlike currently available imaging techniques, such as NMR tomography, CAT-Scan, angiography, or ultrasonography, which expose the patient to undesirable radiation, this new imaging technique does not expose the patient to undesirable radiation, such as X-rays, strong magnetic field, ultra-sound, etc. Material required for this present simplest form is a sample of internal organs in the form of a microscopic slide or a small piece of dessicated internal organ from a human or animal and a fine probe, or its alternative method (using a focused beam of light or a positive electrical field). The imaging can be carried out any place in any emergency situation, even in a place where there are no medical facilities or electricity. In addition to imaging of the internal organs, without any prior knowledge of the patient's chief complaint or history, not only can the presence or absence of cancer of specific internal organs be suspected, even in very small size, but also the exact location of such a suspected area within the specific internal organ can be localized, even when NMR tomography or CAT-Scan has failed to detect the cancer. As a further extension of the "Bi-Digital O-Ring Test" application and imaging technique, the presence or absence of specific bacteria can be suspected and localized, using the patient's "Bi-Digital O-Ring Test" response to glass slides of pure bacteria, which can often be confirmed by bacterial culture, when culturing is feasible. Imaging of different internal organs, including the heart, blood vessels, pancreas, gall bladder, duodenum, bile ducts, pancreatic ducts, kidneys, uterus, ovaries, fallopian tubes, thymus networks, appendix, etc. were studied. Also, detection and localization of cancer of the head of the pancreas was studied, and some of the clinical examples of these various studies are shown in this article. When the "Bi-Digital O-Ring Test" of the pancreas representation area showed minus 3 or minus 4, the author often found an abnormally enlarged body of the pancreas, with prolonged and enlarged tail of the pancreas, with suspected bacterial infection in that part of the pancreas, often accompanied by enlarged gall bladder.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)