Comparison of real-time myocardial contrast echocardiography for the assessment of myocardial viability with fluorodeoxyglucose-18 positron emission tomography and dobutamine stress echocardiography. Little is known about the diagnostic value of real-time myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) for the assessment of myocardial viability. We compared the diagnostic accuracy of MCE with that of low-dose dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) and of combined technetium-99 sestamibi single-photon emission computed tomography and fluorodeoxyglucose-18 positron emission tomography and investigated whether quantitative assessment of myocardial blood flow could increase its diagnostic value. Cardiac imaging was performed with these 3 methods in 41 patients who had ischemic heart disease (ejection fraction < 40%) and were being considered for revascularization. Follow-up echocardiograms were obtained after 3 to 6 months in revascularized patients, and increased regional function served as a standard reference for assessment of myocardial viability. A control group of 25 patients who had no coronary artery disease underwent MCE to assess normal values of myocardial perfusion parameters. Recovery of myocardial function was predicted by MCE with a sensitivity of 86% and a specificity of 43%. Nuclear imaging was comparably sensitive (90%) and specific (44%), whereas low-dose DSE was similarly sensitive (83%) but more specific (76%). Normalization of myocardial signal intensity to that of the control group significantly increased the specificity of MCE from 43% to 64% and the accuracy from 73% to 81%. A combination of quantitative MCE and DSE provided the best diagnostic characteristics, with a sensitivity of 96%, a specificity of 63%, and an accuracy of 83%. Thus, MCE is useful for assessing myocardial viability. Normalization of contrast intensity to that of a reference control group is a valid approach for detection of myocardial viability and expands on information obtained from visual MCE and DSE.