Whiskers area as extracerebral reference tissue for quantification of rat brain metabolism using (18)F-FDG PET: application to focal cerebral ischemia. Diseases and dysfunction of the central nervous system are often associated with regional changes in cerebral glucose metabolism, which can be measured in vivo by PET using (18)F-FDG as the tracer. For quantification, the arterial tracer input function must be determined. For rodents in particular, direct measurement of blood radioactivity concentration is scarcely feasible for follow-up of individual animals because of the invasiveness of blood sampling. We show that the whiskers area of the rat's muzzle serves as an extracerebral reference region. The derived model also takes into account local variations of the lumped constant, which is crucial in pathologic tissue.In 11 rats, the reference tissue kinetic parameters were determined from PET data and measured whole blood radioactivity concentration. Parametric images of cerebral kinetic rate constants were calculated using the directly measured input function, the reference tissue time-activity curve with individually fitted reference kinetic parameters, and the reference time-activity curve with fixed reference kinetic parameters calculated from the fitted parameters averaged over all animals. The need for kinetic modeling in disease models is demonstrated in 5 rats subjected to acute focal cerebral ischemia. (18)F-FDG metabolism and transport rate constants and local cerebral glucose metabolic rates were calculated.Cerebral kinetic constants derived from the 3 methods corresponded closely. The maximum difference in whole-brain kinetic parameters observed between the directly measured input function and the reference tissue time-activity curve with individually fitted reference kinetic parameters was less than 5%. Taking fixed reference parameters (the reference time-activity curve with fixed reference kinetic parameters calculated from the fitted parameters averaged over all animals) still provided whole-brain kinetic parameters with an accuracy of approximately 90%. In the rats subjected to focal cerebral ischemia, (18)F-FDG kinetic parameters in healthy tissue were not significantly different from whole-brain kinetic parameters in naive rats. The ischemic region was characterized by preserved glucose metabolism, although (18)F-FDG uptake was elevated significantly-that is, the lumped constant in the ischemic region was different from that of healthy brain tissue.The method presented here allows for the quantitative noninvasive determination of cerebral glucose consumption in rats, takes into account local variations of the lumped constant, and is suitable for follow-up measurements of individuals.