 Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PNET) are rare, are classified as nonfunctional or functional, and have been discussed in detail by Batcher et al. (1). Nonfunctional PNETs usually grow in size and eventually cause a mass effect in the organ, whereas functional tumors secrete one (or more) active hormones and are subclassified on the basis of the hormone secreted by the cells constituting the tumor (e.g., insulinomas (secrete insulin), glucagonomas (secrete glucagon), somatostatinomas (secrete somatostatin), etc.). Insulinomas are the most common PNETs observed in the clinic, and biochemical tests of patients with these tumors show that the individuals have fasting hypoglycemia (below normal glucose levels) along with hyperinsulinemia (elevated levels of insulin) (1). Complete surgical resection of the tumor is considered to be the most suitable treatment and cure for the patient (2). Most insulinomas are small and benign, and they exist as single lesions. Imaging techniques such as computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) are often used to detect and determine the location of these tumors on the pancreas (3). However, the preoperative detection of these lesions with noninvasive imaging is difficult because the techniques are either unable to distinguish the tumor from the normal parenchymal tissue in the pancreas (e.g., CT), are expensive (e.g., MRI), invasive, and successful detection of the tumor is operator-dependent (e.g., EUS) (3, 4). Investigators have shown that insulinomas characteristically express high levels of glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptors (GLP-1R), and radiolabeled GLP-1 analogs have been developed and evaluated for the detection of the PNETs (5). Although GLP-1 is the natural ligand for the GLP-1R, a major drawback of using this peptide to detect the lesions is that it is rapidly inactivated (half-life, ~2 min) by proteolytic enzymes while in circulation. As a consequence, investigators have used 