Global cerebral blood flow during infusion of adenosine in humans: assessment by magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography. To conduct a systematic review of the medical literature assessing (1) accuracy of noninvasive technologies (NITs) for diagnosing coronary artery disease (CAD) in women with symptoms suspicious for CAD, (2) predictors affecting test accuracy, (3) ability of NITs to provide risk stratification, prognostic information, inform decisionmaking about treatment options, and affect clinical outcomes, and (4) risks to women undergoing these tests.MEDLINEStudies published in English through September 2011 with sex-specific outcomes comparing exercise/stress electrocardiography (ECG), echocardiography (ECHO), single proton emission computed tomography (SPECT), cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR), or coronary computed tomography angiography (coronary CTA) with another NIT, or with coronary angiography. We ran separate meta-analyses of the accuracy of each NIT modality compared with coronary angiography on the no known and mixed CAD populations in women and in men.A total of 104 comparative studies (110 articles) were included. For women with no known CAD, the summary of accuracy for each NIT modality compared with coronary angiography was ECG (29 studies), sensitivity 62 percent, specificity 68 percent ECHO (14 studies), sensitivity 79 percent, specificity 83 percentThis systematic review provides evidence for the summary sensitivities and specificities of exercise/stress ECG, ECHO, SPECT, CMR, and coronary CTA compared with coronary angiography used for diagnosing CAD in women. There was limited or insufficient evidence from comparative studies to define the influence of clinical and demographic factors on NIT diagnostic accuracy, risk stratification, prognostic information, treatment decisions, clinical outcomes, and harms in women.Adenosine, an endogenous vasodilator, induces a cerebral vasodilation at hypotensive infusion rates in anaesthetized humans. At lower doses (< 100 micrograms kg-1 min-1), adenosine has shown to have an analgesic effect. This study was undertaken to investigate whether a low dose, causing tolerable symptoms of peripheral vasodilation affects the global cerebral blood flow (CBF). In nine healthy volunteers CBF measurements were made using axial magnetic resonance (MR) phase images of the internal carotid and vertebral arteries at the level of C2-3. Quantitative assessment of CBF was also obtained with positron emission tomography (PET) technique, using intravenous bolus [15O]butanol as tracer in four of the subject at another occasion. During normoventilation (5.4 +/- 0.2 kPa, mean +/- s.e.m.), the cerebral blood flow measured by magnetic resonance imaging technique, as the sum of the flows in both carotid and vertebral arteries, was 863 +/- 66 mL min-1, equivalent to about 64 +/- 5 mL 100 g-1 min-1. The cerebral blood flow measured by positron emission tomography technique, was 59 +/- 4 mL 100 g-1 min-1. All subjects had a normal CO2 reactivity. When adenosine was infused (84 +/- 7 micrograms kg-1 min-1.) the cerebral blood flow, measured by magnetic resonance imaging was 60 +/- 5 mL 100 g-1 min-1. The end tidal CO2 level was slightly lower (0.2 +/- 0.1 kPa) during adenosine infusion than during normoventilation. In the subgroup there was no difference in cerebral blood flow as measured by magnetic resonance imaging or positron emission tomography. In conclusion, adenosine infusion at tolerable doses in healthy volunteers does not affect global cerebral blood flow in unanaesthetized humans.