Effects of the D2 receptor agonist bromocriptine on sleep bruxism: report of two single-patient clinical trials. An altered dopamine receptor status has been associated with sleep bruxism. Evidence from a functional neuro-imaging study has implicated an abnormal side imbalance in striatal D2 receptor expression in its pathophysiology. To assess the significance of this finding, we studied the effects of short-term administration of the preferential dopamine D2 receptor agonist bromocriptine on sleep bruxism in a double-blind, placebo-controlled polysomnographic and neuro-imaging study with a single crossover design. Six otherwise healthy and drug-free patients with sleep bruxism were entered into the trial. One of the patients dropped out due to an intercurrent illness, while three others were discontinued from the study due to severe adverse reactions to bromocriptine. Because of the high frequency and intensity of the side-effects, the trial was interrupted. Two patients, however, completed the trial without any adverse reactions. Their outcome measures are presented as single-patient clinical trials. Following a two-week administration of bromocriptine, both patients showed a decrease in the number of bruxism episodes per hour of sleep of about 20% to 30% with respect to the placebo. WHile no significant differences between both conditions (i.e., placebo and bromocriptine) were found for the number of bruxism bursts per episode, significantly lower root-mean-squared EMG levels per bruxism burst occurred during bromocriptine use. In association with this polysomnographically established attenuation of sleep bruxism, bromocriptine afforded a decreased normal side distribution of striatal D2 receptor binding, as was evidenced by single-photon-emission computed tomography using the radioactive D2 receptor antagonist iodine-123-iodobenzamide. This study supports previous suggestions that the central dopaminergic system may be involved in the modulation of sleep bruxism. To see if the present findings apply across a population, investigators should use a peripheral D-2 antagonist to prevent side-effects.