Permanent cortical damage detected by flumazenil positron emission tomography in acute stroke. Therapy of acute ischemic stroke can only be effective as long as neurons are viable and tissue is not infarcted. Since gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors are abundant in the cortex and sensitive to ischemic damage, specific radioligands to their subunits, the central benzodiazepine receptors (BZR), may be useful as indicators of neuronal integrity and as markers of irreversible damage. To test this hypothesis we studied the binding of the BZR ligand [11C]flumazenil (FMZ) early after ischemic stroke in comparison to the extent of final infarcts and hypometabolic cortical areas.In 10 patients cerebral blood flow, cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen (CMRO2), oxygen extraction fraction (OEF), and FMZ binding were studied by positron emission tomography 3.5 to 16 hours after onset of their first hemispheric stroke. Early changes in flow, oxygen metabolism, and FMZ binding were compared with permanent disturbances in glucose metabolism, and the size of the final infarcts was determined on MRI or CT 12 to 22 days after the stroke.In all patients except one cerebral blood flow was disturbed, with marked decreases in eight and a hyperperfusion in one patient corresponding to the location of neurological deficits. In these areas CMRO2 was also reduced but to a variable degree, inducing highly variable OEF. Areas with markedly decreased CMRO2 (<60 micromol/100 g per minute) corresponded to regions with decreased FMZ binding (<4.0 times the mean value in the white matter). In all patients the final cortical infarcts were visible on the early FMZ images. Infarcts could be discriminated from noninfarcted cortex by decreased FMZ binding despite a wide range of OEF. In finally hypometabolic cortex FMZ binding was initially decreased or normal, with OEF covering a wide range this suggested neuronal loss and/or deactivation as the cause of metabolic disturbance. Additionally, a highly significant correlation was found between FMZ distribution within the first 2 minutes after injection and regional cerebral blood flow.These results demonstrate that permanently and irreversibly damaged cortex can be detected by reduced FMZ binding early after stroke. Since FMZ distribution additionally images regional cerebral perfusion, BZR radioligands have a potential as clinically useful tracers in patients with acute ischemic stroke. The evidence of tissue damage furnished by these tracers might be of relevance for the selection of individual therapeutic strategies.