Diagnosis and pathogenesis of CNS lupus. The central nervous system (CNS) is clinically involved in approximately 40% of all systemic lupus erythematosis (SLE) patients. Minor psychiatric symptoms and abnormalities on neuropsychological testing are being detected with increasing frequency. This review summarizes current thinking concerning the diagnosis and pathogenesis of CNS lupus. The main symptoms of CNS lupus can be diffuse (generalized seizures, psychosis) or focal (stroke, peripheral neuropathies). Neuropsychiatric symptoms often occur in the first year of SLE, but are rarely the presenting symptoms of the disease. In studies on the pathology of CNS lupus, vasculopathy, infarcts and haemorrhages are often observed, whereas vasculitis is rare. Endocardial lesions and mural thrombi have also been reported in 33-50% of CNS lupus patients. In diagnostic imaging of the CNS, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans often provide evidence for edema or small infarcts, both in focal and diffuse CNS lupus, whereas computerized tomography (CT) scans only show gross abnormalities. The first reports on position emission tomography (PET) scans in CNS lupus patients show decreased glucose uptake in the brain. The cerebral blood flow decreases during active diffuse and focal CNS lupus. The blood-brain barrier is somewhat more frequently impaired in diffuse CNS lupus. Intrathecal IgG and IgM production is observed in 25-66% of all CNS lupus patient. Various specificities of autoantibodies have been observed in CNS lupus. Of these, anticardiolipin (ACA) antibodies show a well-documented association with focal involvement of the CNS in SLE. These antibodies could cause thrombosis by interfering with the protein C pathway of fibrinolysis. In addition, they are associated with endocardial and valvular heart disease, which is often observed in SLE and which could cause embolism. The relation between ACA and diffuse CNS lupus is not yet clear. Low-avidity anti-DNA antibodies are also found in CNS lupus, possibly because of their cross-reaction with cardiolipin. Antineuronal antibodies and lymphocytotoxic antibodies have been associated with diffuse CNS lupus and abnormalities on neuropsychological testing. However, the population of these antibodies is rather heterogeneous and it has not been possible to assess a common target antigen. Therefore, it is still obscure whether there is also a second immune-mediated mechanism responsible for the development of the diffuse form of CNS lupus.