Laparoscopic Sugiura procedure for conditioning of the blood stream through TIPSS in cirrhotic patient. Initial experience. The Sugiura procedure or the proximal gastric devascularisation was formerly the method of choice for esophageal varicose treatment in some patients. The frequency of this operation decreased stenting after the introduction of the transjugular portosystemic shunt into clinical practice. However this method performed laparoscopically could be useful as a complementary procedure when the blood stream through the transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent shunt is low and an esophageal rebleeding occurs. A 40-year old patient with hepatic cirrhosis and Child stage "B" was admitted to our clinic due to recurrent esophageal varicose bleeding. He underwent a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent shunt implantation 27 months before the admission and the transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent shunt became occluded 3 times since implantation and was repeatedly revised. After admission a color Doppler of the stent was performed. The blood stream was 15 cm/s. The laparoscopic Sugiura procedure was performed after conditioning of the general status of the patient. Five ports were introduced 5 cm above the umbilicus, under the xiphoid, the right and left hypochondrium as well as the left mesogastrium. The dilated veins between the gastric coronary vein and esophagus and the short gastric veins on the great curvature were interrupted by means of an ultrasonic scalpel. The hiatus esophagus was opened, the esophagus was prepared up to the first pulmonal vein and the dilated esophageal veins were occluded with stitch ligatures. The operation was completed with Toupet partial fundoplication. The patient was followed 6 months after the surgery. No rebleeding occurred in this time period. Immediately after surgery the blood flow increased up to 97 cm/s at 3 and 6 months follow-up the intrahepatic shunt remained open with 82 and 80 cm/s blood flow respectively. Laparoscopic Sugiura procedure performed as a complementary surgery after transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent shunt implantation increased blood perfusion through the intrahepatal constructed shunt and prevented its occlusion. However this initial experience has to be confirmed with a larger number of patients.