Focal neurological signs in hepatic encephalopathy in cirrhotic patients: an underestimated entity? Focal neurological signs have been poorly documented in the course of hepatic encephalopathy in cirrhotic patients because they are not mentioned in any textbooks of liver diseases. Having the opportunity to observe such cases, we underwent a prospective study to determine incidence, characteristics, associated factors, prognostic significance, and outcome of this rare form of hepatic encephalopathy.Over a 12-month period, all cirrhotic patients hospitalized in the intensive care unit of our department for hepatic encephalopathy were prospectively studied. Patients with clinical and electroencephalogram evidences of hepatic encephalopathy were examined by a senior physician and, in cases of focal neurological signs, underwent examination by a neurologist, CT scan, lumbar punction, and cerebral magnetic resonance imaging and echo Doppler examination of neck and head vessels. Clinical and biological parameters were compared in patients during episodes with and without focal neurological signs, and outcome was noted.Thirty-four cirrhotic patients were hospitalized for 48 episodes of hepatic encephalopathy two of these patients with cerebral hematoma were excluded. Twenty-four patients exhibited 38 hepatic encephalopathy episodes without focal neurological signs (82.6%), and eight patients exhibited eight hepatic encephalopathy episodes with focal neurological signs (17.4%) that were hemiplegia and hemiparesia in six patients (75%). In all patients, cerebral CT scan and cerebrospinal fluid examination disclosed no abnormalities, as neither did cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (n = 5) and echo Doppler examination of neck and head vessels (n = 5). Except for female sex, which was more often encountered in patients with focal neurological signs (p < 0.05), there were no differences between episodes with and without focal neurological signs for any of the parameters studied. In surviving patients who recovered from hepatic encephalopathy (7/8), focal neurological signs disappeared without recurrences after follow up of 6 months (3-12).Hepatic encephalopathy with focal neurological signs when carefully searched is not uncommon. It could be more frequent in cirrhotic females, is reversible, and has no prognostic significance.