The impact of chemotherapy on morbidity due to schistosomiasis. Current knowledge on the impact of chemotherapy on schistosomiasis-related morbidity is still fragmentary. In urinary schistosomiasis, reversal of organ pathology follows cure after 6 months and resurgence takes place after at least another 6 months. Retreatment after less than 1 year is, therefore, unnecessary. Also, intestinal schistosomiasis appears to regress promptly after chemotherapy. For the reversal of hepatic morbidity, more than one chemotherapy round appears necessary at least in foci of intense transmission of schistosomiasis. The earlier chemotherapy is given, the higher the chances of reversal of schistosomal pathology, but pathology may regress to some extent also in adults. The regression and resurgence of periportal fibrosis, as detected by ultrasonography, occurs with a delay of 7 months to more than 2 years after therapy. Retreatment after less than 1 year may not permit full assessment of the impact of the first round on hepatic morbidity. Children and adolescents should be the major target population, taking into account that in many foci, children out-of-school must be covered because they are at the highest risk. Repeated treatment during childhood may prevent the development of urinary tract disease in adulthood. However, no data are available on the prevention of genital pathology. Repeated chemotherapy may have a long term effect on re-infection intensities and the development of severe morbidity, even in foci where control has been interrupted for many years. Severe hepatic fibrosis may be prevented even in foci of intense transmission provided more than two rounds of chemotherapy have been given in childhood and that chemotherapy is available on demand. Chemotherapy has an important impact on child development, physical fitness and working capacity. Its effect on growth and anemia is improved by simultaneous treatment of intestinal parasites and the provision of adequate iron supplementation. The impact of chemotherapy on many of the multifaceted manifestations of schistosomiasis has not been assessed systematically. More data are needed on gallbladder pathology, neuroschistosomiasis, endocrinologic disorders, bladder cancer and co-infections with other pathogens. In areas where control has been achieved, the overall morbidity and mortality has decreased with a delay of many years or even decades.