Laparoscopic ultrasound with radiofrequency ablation of hepatic tumors in cirrhotic patients. The optimal treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is surgical resection. However, only a small percentage of patients are operative candidates due to associated liver cirrhosis. Recent advances in laparoscopic ultrasound and laparoscopy have greatly improved the accuracy in detecting intrahepatic tumor nodules, many of which were missed by preoperative imaging modality.The aim of this work was for an evaluation of the safety and efficacy of laparoscopic radiofrequency ablation (RFA) guided with laparoscopic ultrasound in detecting and treatment of liver tumors in patient with liver cirrhosis.Seventy-two patients with liver tumors (58 HCC, 9 metastatic adencarcinoma, 2 neoendocrine metastasis, 3 other metastasis) were submitted to laparoscopic RFA under laparoscopic ultrasound guidance. Forty-four patients (61.1%) were classified Child A and 28 patients (38.9%) Child B. Patients with large tumor (>6 cm), portal vein thrombosis, or Child C class were excluded from the study.Laparoscopic RFA was completed in all patients without any conversion rate. Laparoscopic ultrasound identified 19 new malignant lesions (18.4%), in comparison with the result of preoperative imaging. A total of 103 hepatic focal lesions were treated by RFA (45 patients had 1 lesion, 23 patients had 2 lesions, and 4 patients had 3 lesions). There was no mortality. Morbidity occurred in 4 patients (5.5%): 2 patients had liver abscesses, 1 patient had pleural effusion, and 1 patient had postoperative bleeding necessitating blood transfusion and surgery. After a mean follow-up of 14.3 +/- 11.6 months, a complete response with 100% necrosis was achieved in 93 of 103 lesions (90.3%). Three lesions (2.9%) showed local recurrences, 5 lesions (4.8%) showed remote recurrences, and 2 lesions (1.9%) showed both local and remote recurrences.Laparoscopic RFA guided with laparoscopic ultrasound is an excellent use of existing technology in the improvement of safety and efficacy of detection and treatment of intrahepatic tumors in patients with liver cirrhosis.