Transient elastography as a predictor of oesophageal varices in patients with liver cirrhosis. One of the most serious complications of liver cirrhosis is variceal bleeding. Early recognition of the oesophageal varices is of primary importance in the prevention of variceal bleeding. Endoscopy is the only means to directly visualize varices and measure their size, as one of the most important predictor of the risk of bleeding. During the course of cirrhosis repeated oesophago-gastro-bulboscopic examinations are recommended. As these interventions are expensive and often poorly accepted by patients who may refuse further follow-up, there is a need for non-invasive methods to predict the progression of portal hypertension as well as the presence and the size of oesophageal varices. After several combinations of biological and ultrasonographical parameters proposed for the detection of advanced fibrosis, it was suggested that liver stiffness measured by transient elastography, a novel non-invasive technology may reflect not only fibrosis and portal pressure but it may even predict the presence or absence of large oesophageal varices in patients with cirrhosis.The aim of the authors was to study the diagnostic accuracy of transient elastography using FibroScan for selecting patients who are at risk of bearing large (Paquet-grade ≥ II) oesophageal varices and high risk of bleeding.The authors performed upper tract endoscopy and transient elastography in 74 patients with chronic liver disease (27 patients with chronic hepatitis and 47 patients with liver cirrhosis). The relationships between the presence of oesophageal varices (Paquet-grade 0-IV) and liver stiffness (kPa), as well as the hematological and biochemical laboratory parameters (prothrombine international normalized ratio, platelet count, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, albumin, and aspartate aminotransferase/platelet ratio index) were investigated. The predictive role of liver stiffness for screening patients with varices and those who are at high risk of variceal bleeding was also analysed.Liver stiffness values significantly correlated with the grade of oesophageal varices (Paquet-grade) (r = 0.67, p<0.0001). The liver stiffness value of 19.2 kPa was highly predictive for the presence of oesophageal varices (AUROC: 0.885, 95% CI: 0.81-0.96) and for the presence of high grade varices (P≥II) (AUROC: 0.850, 95% CI: 0.754-0.94). Using the cut-off value of 19.2 kPa, the sensitivity of transient elastography was 85%, specificity was 87%, positive predictive value was 85%, negative predictive value was 87% and validity was 86% for the detection of varices. Liver stiffness values less than 19.2 kPa were highly predicitive for the absence of large (P≥II) varices (sensitivity, 95% specificity, 70%Transient elastography may help to screen patients who are at high risk of bearing large (P≥II) oesophageal varices which predict variceal bleeding and, therefore, need endoscopic screening. Lives stiffness values higher than 19.2 kPa indicate the need for oesophageal-gastro-bulboscopy, while liver stiffness values lower than 19.2 kPa make the presence of large oesophageal varices unlikely.Bevezetés: A májcirrhosis egyik legsúlyosabb szövődményének, a nyelőcsővarix-vérzésnek a prevenciójában a varixok korai felismerése és kezelése alapvető fontosságú. A vérzés kockázata függ a fibrosis/cirrhosis előrehaladásával súlyosbodó portalis hypertoniától és a varixok nagyságától. A varixdiagnosztika eszköze az endoszkópia, amire a kórlefolyás alatt ismételten szükség lehet a varixméret alakulásának követésére. Mivel az ismételt endoszkópos vizsgálatok nemcsak költségesek, hanem gyakran a betegek ellenállásába is ütközhetnek, felvetődött, hogy nem invazív eljárással lehetne-e kiszűrni a vérzés veszélyének különösen kitett, nagy varixokat hordozó betegeket, illetve csökkenteni a feleslegesnek tartható endoszkópiák számát. Célkitűzés: A varixvérzés kockázatának felmérésére a fibrosisstádium megítélésére használt tranziens elasztográfiát is ajánlották, ezért a szerzők célul tűzték ki e módszer prediktív szerepének vizsgálatát oesophagogastrobulboscopiával vizsgált májbetegekben. Módszer: 27 krónikus hepatitises és 47 cirrhosisos beteget vizsgáltak, akik etiológia szerint hepatitis B-vírus- (n = 4), illetve C-vírus-fertőzésben (n = 24), primer biliaris cirrhosisban (n = 12), nem alkoholos steatohepatitisben (n = 12), alkoholos (n = 11), autoimmun hepatitis (n = 9) és cryptogen cirrhosis (n = 2) eredetű kórképekben szenvedtek. Felső endoszkópiával megállapították a nyelőcső-varicositas Paquet szerinti súlyosságát (P0–IV), és párhuzamosan tranziens elasztográfiával a fibrosist jelző májtömöttséget. Vizsgálták a varicositasnak a vérkép, a szérumtranszamináz, gamma-glutamiltranszferáz, albumin és protombin, valamint a fibrosist jelző aszpartát-aminotranszferáz/thrombocyta hányados indexértékekkel való összefüggését is. Eredmények: A májtömöttség korrelált a Paquet-súlyossággal (r = 0,67, p<0,0001). Az adatok alapján 19,2 kPa májtömöttségérték varix jelenlétére vonatkozóan 85%-os szenzitivitású, 86%-os specificitású, míg a PII–PIV súlyosságú varixok kockázatát illetően 95% szenzitivitású és 70% specificitású, pozitív prediktív értéke 54%, negatív prediktív értéke 97%. Következtetések: A tranziens elasztográfia segíti a nyelőcsővarix-vérzés kockázatának kitett betegek kiszűrését, akiknek feltehetően P≥II súlyosságú varicositásuk van, és endoszkópos vizsgálatot igényelnek. 19,2 kP feletti májtömöttség esetén a betegek 85%-ában lehet számítani varix jelenlétére ilyen esetekben oesophagogastrobulboscopia javasolt. Ugyanakkor a 19,2 kP alatti májtömöttség esetén kicsi a valószínűsége P≥II súlyosságú varicositásnak. A tranziens elasztográfia nem helyettesíti a cirrhosis diagnosztikája során ajánlott endoszkópiát, de a kórlefolyás alatt csökkentheti az ismételt endoszkópiák számát. Orv. Hetil., 2014, 155(7), 270–276.