Endoscopic sphincterotomy for choledocholithiasis: a prospective single-center study on the short-term and long-term treatment results in 483 patients. Endoscopic sphincterotomy (EST) is the method of choice for the treatment of choledocholithiasis. The aim of the present study was to assess the impact of various prognostic factors on the short-term and long-term results of EST.Data from 483 EST procedures carried out due to choledocholithiasis without concomitant neoplasms or hepatic cirrhosis, and without subsequent bile duct surgery, were analyzed prospectively. The 324 patients (67%) who agreed to take part in the follow-up examinations and fulfilled the inclusion criteria for the study were divided into four groups, depending on the presence of the gallbladder or cholecystolithiasis prior to EST and on the time of diagnosis, and were prospectively followed up by physical examination laboratory tests, abdominal ultrasound, and endoscopic retrograde cholangiography examinations to evaluate the short-term and long-term outcomes.EST was successful in 95.7% of cases. Early complications were noted in 6.8% of cases. No early complications were seen in the group after cholecystectomy with a T-tube present, whereas this rate was highest in the group with concurrent choledocholithiasis and cholecystolithiasis (six of 48, 12.5%). Recurrent choledocholithiasis was observed in 5.6% of the cases overall. This rate was at its lowest in patients with choledocholithiasis alone, and was highest in the group with concurrent choledocholithiasis and cholecystolithiasis. Among the latter patients, the highest rates of papillary stenosis, chronic pancreatitis, and cholangitis were also observed, the latter complication being noted only in cases of recurrent common bile duct stones.EST is a relatively safe and effective procedure in the treatment of choledocholithiasis. The best prognostic factor is the presence of choledocholithiasis alone. Concurrent choledocholithiasis and cholecystolithiasis carry a more adverse prognosis, and in these cases cholecystectomy should be considered after EST.