<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2020-03-05</DATELINE><TITLE>Novel coronavirus infection and pregnancy</TITLE><BODY>Clinical manifestation of COVID-19 infection during pregnancy Due to the physiological changes in their immune and cardiopulmonary systems, pregnant women are more likely to develop severe illness after infection with respiratory viruses. In 2009, pregnant women accounted for 1% of patients infected with influenza A subtype H1N1 virus, but they accounted for 5% of all H1N1-related deaths6. In addition, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), two notable strains of the coronavirus family, are both known to be responsible for severe complications during pregnancy, including the need for endotracheal intubation, admission to an intensive care unit (ICU), renal failure and death7, 8. Interestingly, the impact of COVID-19 infection on pregnant women appears to be less severe. Chen et al.9 reported the clinical characteristics of nine pregnant women with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 in the third trimester, which comprised mainly fever and cough. Other symptoms included myalgia, malaise, sore throat, diarrhea and shortness of breath. Data from laboratory tests showed that the majority of patients had lymphopenia and increased C-reactive protein, and chest CT scans showed multiple patchy ground-glass shadows in the lungs. Pregnancy complications that appeared after the onset of COVID-19 infection included fetal distress in two of nine patients and premature rupture of the membranes in two of nine patients. None of the patients developed severe COVID-19 pneumonia or died. Another series10 of nine pregnant women with COVID-19 pneumonia presenting from mid-trimester onwards, or during the postpartum period, reported similar findings except for one woman requiring ICU care and ventilation for acute respiratory distress syndrome after the infection was diagnosed 2?days postpartum. In general, both studies reported that the clinical characteristics of the pregnant women with COVID-19 pneumonia were similar to those of non-pregnant adult patients who developed COVID-19 pneumonia2-4. These observations are also in line with what has been learned about COVID-19 pneumonia in pregnancy in several other hospitals in Wuhan, China. Pregnant healthcare professionals should follow risk-assessment and infection-control guidelines following exposure to patients with suspected or confirmed COVID-19. Adherence to recommended infection prevention and control practices is an important part of protecting all healthcare professionals in clinical settings11.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>