Reduction of coronary flow reserve in areas with and without ischemia on stress perfusion imaging in patients with coronary artery disease: a study using oxygen 15-labeled water PET. Myocardial perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) occasionally fails to detect coronary stenosis in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). We evaluated coronary flow reserve (CFR) using oxygen 15-labeled water in areas with and without ischemia on technetium 99m tetrofosmin stress perfusion SPECT in patients with angiographically documented CAD.Twenty-seven patients with CAD and eleven age-matched normal subjects were studied. Baseline myocardial blood flow (MBF) and MBF during hyperemia induced by intravenous adenosine triphosphate infusion (0.16 mg. kg(-1). min(-1)) were determined with the use of O-15-labeled water positron emission tomography, and the CFR was calculated. Tc-99m tetrofosmin stress/rest SPECT was performed for comparison. On the basis of the results of coronary angiography and SPECT, coronary segments were divided into 3 types: segments with coronary stenosis and a perfusion abnormality on stress SPECT imaging (group A, n = 16), segments with coronary stenosis without a perfusion abnormality (group B, n = 42), and remote segments with no coronary stenosis or perfusion abnormality (group C, n = 18). Baseline MBF values were similar among the 3 groups. CFR in group A was lower (1.82 +/- 0.54) than in group B (2.22 +/- 0.87, P <.05), in group C (2.92 +/- 1.21, P <.01), and in normal segments (3.86 +/- 1.24, P <.001). CFR in group B was lower than in group C (P <.02) and in normal segments (P <.001). CFR in group C was lower than in normal segments (P <.02).Areas with a perfusion abnormality on stress SPECT had reduced CFR. In the areas without a perfusion abnormality and with coronary stenosis, lowering of CFR was intermediate between the areas with a perfusion abnormality and remote segments. Moreover, CFR was slightly, but significantly, lower in remote segments in patients with CAD compared with normal segments.