Respiratory gating for 3-dimensional PET of the thorax: feasibility and initial results. Respiratory motion may reduce the sensitivity of (18)F-FDG PET for the detection of small pulmonary nodules close to the base of the lungs. This motion also interferes with attempts to use fused PET/CT images through software or combined PET/CT devices. This study was undertaken to assess the feasibility of respiratory gating for PET of the chest and the impact of respiratory motion on quantitative analysis.Ten healthy subjects were enrolled in this study. Three-dimensional studies were acquired with 8 gates per respiratory cycle on a commercial PET scanner with a temperature-sensitive respiratory gating device built in-house. All scans were obtained over 42 cm of body length with 3 bed positions of 10 min each after injection of (18)F-FDG at 4.5 MBq/kg. The reconstructed images were assembled to produce gated whole-body volumes and maximum-intensity projections. The amplitude of respiratory motion of the kidneys (as a surrogate for diaphragmatic incursion) as well as the apex of the heart was measured in the coronal plane. Phantom studies were acquired to simulate the impact of respiratory motion on quantitative uptake measurements.The respiratory gating device produced a consistent, reliable trigger signal. All acquisitions were successful and produced reconstructed volumes with excellent image quality. Mean +/- SD motion amplitude and maximal motion amplitude values were 6.7 +/- 3.0 and 11.9 mm for the heart, 12.0 +/- 3.7 and 18.8 mm for the right kidney, and 11.1 +/- 4.8 and 17.1 mm for the left kidney, respectively. In phantom studies, the standardized uptake value for a 1-mL lesion was underestimated by 30% and 48% for the average and maximal respiratory motion values, respectively.Respiratory gating of PET of the thorax and upper abdomen is a practical and feasible approach that may improve the detection of small pulmonary nodules. Further work is planned to assess prospectively the diagnostic accuracy of this new method.