Do implanted pacemaker leads and ICD leads cause metal-related artifact in cardiac PET/CT? Artifacts related to metallic implants are an established limitation of CT-based attenuation correction (CT-AC) in PET/CT. However, the impact of metallic components of pacemaker leads and implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) leads on the accuracy of cardiac PET has not been evaluated. The goal of this study was to investigate the magnitude of artifacts related to pacing and defibrillation leads in both phantom and patient studies.Images were acquired on a PET/CT scanner using CT-AC and were compared with those obtained on a dedicated PET scanner using transmission source-based attenuation correction. Phantoms consisting of pacemaker leads and ICD leads submerged in uniform background activity solution were imaged, and regions were analyzed to measure radionuclide concentrations at known lead locations relative to background. In addition, 15 cardiac 18F-FDG patients (having either pacing leads, defibrillation leads, or both) were imaged on both PET/CT and PET scanners. Images were visually and quantitatively assessed to determine whether artifact related to the implanted leads was present and, if so, its severity relative to surrounding myocardium.In phantom studies, artifacts caused by pacing lead electrodes were barely noticeable, but artifacts arising from highly radioopaque ICD shock coil electrodes were clearly apparent. In the patient studies, no artifacts from pacing leads were identified. However, significant artifact was observed in 50% of the patient studies with ICD leads. In the affected areas, local myocardial uptake in PET/CT images using CT-AC was, on average, 30% higher than that in the corresponding PET images.Although pacemaker leads do not appear to cause artifact in cardiac PET/CT images, ICD leads frequently do result in artifacts of sufficient magnitude to impact clinical image interpretation. Accordingly, software-based corrections in CT-AC algorithms appear necessary for accurate cardiac imaging with PET/CT.