Spillover Compensation in the Presence of Respiratory Motion Embedded in SPECT Perfusion Data. Spillover from adjacent significant accumulations of extra-cardiac activity decreases diagnostic accuracy of SPECT perfusion imaging in especially the inferior/septal cardiac region. One method of compensating for the spillover at some location outside of a structure is to estimate it as the counts blurred into this location when a template (3D model) of the structure undergoes simulated imaging followed by reconstruction. The objective of this study was to determine what impact uncorrected respiratory motion has on such spillover compensation of extra-cardiac activity in the right coronary artery (RCA) territory, and if it is possible to use manual segmentation to define the extra-cardiac activity template(s) used in spillover correction. Two separate MCAT phantoms (128(3) matrices) were simulated to represent the source and attenuation distributions of patients with and without respiratory motion. For each phantom the heart was modeled: 1) with a normal perfusion pattern and 2) with an RCA defect equal to 50% of the normal myocardium count level. After Monte Carlo simulation of 64 × 64 × 120 projections with appropriate noise, data were reconstructed using the rescaled block iterative (RBI) algorithm with 30 subsets and 5 iterations with compensation for attenuation, scatter and resolution. A 3D Gaussian post-filter with a sigma of 0.476 cm was used to suppress noise. Manual segmentation of the liver in filtered emission slices was used to create 3D binary templates. The true liver distribution (with and without respiratory motion included) was also used as binary templates. These templates were projected using a ray-driven projector simulating the imaging system with the exclusion of Compton scatter and reconstructed using the same protocol as for the emission data, excluding scatter compensation. Reconstructed templates were scaled using reconstructed emission count levels from the liver, and spillover subtracted outside the template. It was evident from the polar maps that the manually segmented template reconstructions were unable to remove all the spillover originating in the liver from the inferior wall. This was especially noticeable when a perfusion defect is present. Templates based on the true liver distribution appreciably improved spillover correction. Thus the emerging combined SPECT/CT technology may play a vital role in identifying and segmenting extra-cardiac structures more reliably thereby facilitating spillover correction. This study also indicates that compensation for respiratory motion might play an important role in spillover compensation.