Thallium chloride 201Tl combined with single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in the evaluation of vestibular schwannoma growth. Thallium chloride 201Tl combined with SPECT was performed in a series of 29 patients with neuroradiological evidence of vestibular schwannoma (VS). The relative tumor uptake (U) and relative tumor concentration (C) of the radiotracer 201Tl was determined, and the cerebellum served as a reference. The relative tracer concentration and uptake were correlated to tumor volume determined by gadolinium DTPA enhanced MR, to prediagnostic duration of symptoms, to tumor vascularity expressed by the average number of intratumoral vessels using the endothelial marker CD31, and to the proliferative activity in the tumors expressed by positive staining with the monoclonal antibody MIB-1 for Ki-67. A positive 201TI enhancement was detected in 17 tumors (n = 17). Tumors U and C were statistically unrelated to tumor volume (p = 0.236 and p = 0.439). SPECT demonstrated all tumors > 0.8 cm3, but it had its limitation as a diagnostic modality of small intracanalicular tumors, when compared with gadolinium DTPA enhanced MR. Relating U and C in all tumors (n = 29) and the prospectively registered data on the prediagnostic duration of symptoms, a statistical significance was found (p = 0.012 and p = 0.015). No statistically significant correlation was observed between U and C and the proliferative activity of the tumors expressed by positive staining with the monoclonal antibody MIB-1 for Ki-67 (p = 0.063 and p = 0.086). A statistically significant correlation was noted between C and U in the operated group (n = 12) and tumor vascularity expressed by the average number of the intratumoral vessels (p = 0.003 and p = 0.014). SPECT was found to be superior to MR in determining VS growth potentials as it expresses tumor vascularity, which is essential for tumor growth. It seems that we now have an in vivo functional radiological modality capable of providing data on VS vascularity and determination of growth potential in the individual tumor. A high radioactive tracer uptake in the tumor corresponded to high tumor vascularity, indicating a high growth rate and vice versa.