Recognition of pneumonia by primary health care workers in Swaziland with a simple clinical algorithm. In developing countries primary health care workers are being trained to manage and treat acute respiratory infections with a protocol developed by the WHO. We tested the ability of nurses and nursing assistants in Swaziland to recognise the signs and symptoms of pneumonia with the results of a paediatrician's examination as "gold standard", sensitivities and specificities were calculated. Danger signs of stridor and abnormal sleepiness were poorly recognised (sensitivity 0-50%) by the health care workers, as was audible wheeze. Severe undernutrition, tachypnoea, and chest wall indrawing were well recognised. Overall, the recognition of pneumonia was good (sensitivity 71-83%, specificity 84-85%). These findings highlight topics for emphasis in training.In July-August 1989, 2 primary health care (PHC) workers (nurses and nurse's assistants) and a pediatrician used WHO case management protocol to assess the conditions of 362 2-59 month old children who came to Mbabane Government Hospital and the Salvation Army Clinic in Mbabane, Swaziland, with coughing (99%) and difficulty in breathing (29%).  The PHC workers had earlier undergone a 5-day training period on identifying signs and symptoms of pneumonia.  A consulting pediatrician and a public health official conducted this study to compare the ability of the PHC workers to recognize the clinical signs of pneumonia with that of the pediatrician (gold standard).  64% of the children had a history of fever, but only 12% had a fever (38.3 degrees Celsius) at admission.  4 children had had convulsions.  The PHC workers did not do well at recognizing the danger signs of stridor and abnormal sleepiness (sensitivity 50% and 0-14%, respectively).  They were able to correctly recognize the danger sign of severe undernutrition in 2 children, however.  They correctly identified most children with true fever (sensitivity 73-76%), yet they also claimed that many children with normal temperature had a fever (specificity 62-78%).  Thus they would have administered antipyretics to 2-3 times too many children.  The nursing assistants detected audible wheeze in only 4 of 14 children with audible wheeze (sensitivity 29%), while the nurses only detected 2 such children (sensitivity 14%).  Further, they diagnosed audible wheeze in 18 children who actually had blocked nostrils.  They correctly identified fast breathing in almost 75% of cases.  Nurses were more likely to correctly diagnose chest wall indrawing than the nursing assistants (sensitivity 68% vs. 34% p = .0048).  Overall, the training helped the PHC workers to diagnose pneumonia quit well (sensitivity 71-83%, specificity 84-85%).  Future training programs must focus on recognition of 2 danger signs, stridor and abnormal sleepiness, however.