Virus antibody levels in the cerebrospinal fluid from patients with optic neuritis. Virus antibody levels were studied in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 58 patients with optic neuritis and 58 control patients with no indication of multiple sclerosis (MS) or infectious disorders of the central nervous system (CNS). The specimens were tested against three different structural components of measles virus with measles hemagglutination inhibition (HI), measles hemolysis inhibition (HLI) and gel precipitation (GP) tests. Measles antibodies occurred in 62 per cent of CSF specimens from patients with optic neuritis, and 21 per cent of the controls. In the specimens from patients with optic neuritis, the positive rate figures were: for rubella HI test 35, parainfluenza-1 HI 16,  and Epstein-Barr virus immunofuorescence (IF) 53 per cent. The frequencies in the control group were 10, 10 and 26 per cent, respectively. Serum/CSF antibody ratios below 80 occurred in measles tests in 45 per cent of patients with optic neuritis and 16 per cent of the control group. Some patients with optic neuritis (but none from the control group) had a reduced serum/CSF antibody ratio in more than one measles antibody test, The patients with optic neuritis had a higher frequency of low serum/CSF albumin ratios indicating blood brain barrier damage, There were, however, several patients with a normal serum/CSF albumin ratio but low serum/CSF immunoglobulin G and measles antibody ratios. This supports the hypothesis that local production of measles antibodies takes place in CNS in some patients with optic neuritis as well as in MS patients. The CSF specimens were further tested against 12 other viruses and mycoplasma pneumoniae complement fixation, but there were no positive specimens. New CSF specimens were taken from five patients during optic neuritis, and from seven patients later on during the follow-up because of the appearance of new neurological symptoms. There were no changes in virus antibody levels, except for two patients with an increase of measles virus antibody titres.