Activation of nuclear factor kappa B and severe hepatic necrosis may mediate systemic inflammation in choline-deficient/ethionine-supplemented diet-induced pancreatitis. We hypothesized that hepatic injury is associated with severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) and may result in lung injury through nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB)-dependent inflammatory mediators. The study characterizes the timing and determines the involvement of selected cytokines and chemokines in the pathogenesis of hepatocellular injury associated with SAP.The SAP was induced in C57BL/6 mice by feeding a choline-deficient/ethionine-supplemented diet. The mice were killed at 12-hour intervals for 96 hours. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick-end labeling staining was used to determine the extent of hepatic apoptosis. The NF-kappaB activation in nuclear protein extracts from liver tissue was measured using a sensitive RelA enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assay. Tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin 6, macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP) 2, and keratinocyte-derived chemokine (KC) levels in homogenates of liver and lung tissues were measured by enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assay. The SAP-associated neutrophil lung inflammation was measured as tissue myeloperoxidase activity.The SAP and subsequent liver injury were confirmed by histological analysis and rises in plasma amylase and transaminase levels. Severe hepatocellular apoptosis was detected at 36 and 48 hours after the diet initiation by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick-end labeling staining (P < 0.05) and subsequently progressed to hepatic necrosis. Liver NF-kappaB activation was detected at 36 hours (P < 0.05) and followed by a sharp increase in hepatocellular levels of interleukin 6, MIP-2, and KC at 72 hours and thereafter (P < 0.05). Levels of MIP-2 and KC in lung tissue were also elevated at 72 hours (P < 0.05) and closely correlated with increased myeloperoxidase activity and increased inflammatory cell infiltrate in the lung.Choline-deficient/ethionine-supplemented diet-induced SAP is accompanied with hepatocellular apoptosis and eventual necrosis. This injury is associated with the hepatic NF-kappaB activation leading to the production of NF-kappaB-dependent cytokines and chemokines in the liver, which may mediate the lung injury.