Multicentre study of comparative efficacy of meropenem and combined regimens for empirical antibacterial therapy of severe nosocomial infections: results of clinical and pharmacoeconomic analysis. Adequacy and effectiveness of empirical antibacterial therapy of severe nosocomial infections with meropenem vs. combined regimens of antibacterial therapy were investigated and the ratio of the cost and effectiveness of the compared regimens was evaluated. A prospective, randomized, open, comparative study of two initiative regimens of empirical antibacterial therapy of severe nosocomial infections was performed: meropenem in a daily dose of 1.5-3 g and the standard regimen with the use of betalactams and fluoroquinolones in combination with aminoglycosides and/or metronidazole. Patients with recorded diagnosis of nosocomial pneumonia (including the ventilator-associated one) or abdominal infection with the signs of severe sepsis and severity of APACHE II > 14 were enrolled. The patients were stratified into 2 groups subject to the disease severity, i.e. APACHE II 15-20 and APACHE II 21-25. One hundred thirty five out of 166 patients with recorded nosocomial infection were included into the final estimate of the therapy adequacy and effectiveness (Protocol Analysis): 62 patients were treated with meropenem and in the treatment of 73 patients the standard antibacterial therapy was used. In the group of the patients treated with meropenem there were stated significantly higher clinical effectiveness (recovery in 80.6% of the patients vs. the control of 46.6%, p < 0.01) and pathogen eradication (89.6 and 48.1% respectively, p < 0.01). The difference in the clinical and bacteriological effectiveness of meropenem and the standard therapy was more evident in the subgroups of more severe patients (APACHE > 20). With the use of meropenem the probability of recovery from nosocomial infection was significantly higher (RR 1.73-1.94, p < 0.001) vs. the control. Meropenem provided significantly higher eradication of the pathogens: P. aeruginosa (88 and 40% respectively, p = 0.007), E. coli (100 and 46.7%, p = 0.003), Acinetobacter spp. (90.9 and 40%, p = 0.02). The antibacterial therapy with the use of meropenem was assessed as adequate in 51 out of 56 patients (91.1%), that was 3 times as frequent as with the use of the standard antibacterial therapy (33.9%). The cost-effectiveness coefficient with the use of meropenem was 2.2 times lower vs. the control. Therefore, the empirical therapy of severe nosocomial infections with meropenem proved to be more adequate and from the economic viewpoint more advantageous vs. the standard combined regimens of antibacterial therapy, that was evident from significantly higher clinical and bacteriological efficacy of the treatment and decrease of the terms of the patients hospitalization in intensive care units (on the average by 5 days).