Clinical features of 3 cases with acute interstitial pneumonia in children. Acute interstitial pneumonia (AIP) is a rare lung interstitial disease in children. This study was conducted to understand the clinical features of the AIP in children.The data of the three cases with AIP admitted to our hospital from March 2008 to November 2009 were reviewed. Of the 3 cases, 2 were male, one was female. Their age ranged from 1 year and 4 months to 10 years. The clinical manifestation, pulmonary function test and the high resolution computed tomography (HRCT) and pathology of the lung were studied retrospectively. Tissue specimens of the lung were obtained by video-assisted thoracoscopic biopsy. Viral etiologic examinations for the respiratory syncytial virus, adenovirus, influenza virus, parainfluenza viruses, EB virus, cytomegalovirus, enterovirus and herpes simplex virus were performed. The IgM antibody to Mycoplasma pneumoniae in the serum was also detected.All the 3 cases rapidly developed respiratory failure of unknown origin, none of these cases had failure of any other organs. All three cases had cough and dyspnea. No case had the rales and digital clubbing. The examinations for viruses, bacteria and Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection were all negative. No evidence for the diagnosis of connective tissue disease was obtained. The HRCT of the chest showed diffuse alveolar consolidation, air bronchogram and ground glass appearance in the bilateral lungs, and the traction-associated bronchiectasis in areas. All the three cases had the histological proof of diffuse alveolar damage by the biopsy. All the three cases were treated with CPAP and corticosteroid. Two cases were treated with corticosteroid in early stage of the disease, the condition of these cases were improved obviously. The third case was treated with high-dose steroid pulse therapy days, the condition of this case was improved slightly in a month. One year follow-up showed that case 1 and case 2 had no hypoxemia and the HRCT of the chest showed obvious improvement. The pulmonary function of case 2 had restrictive deficiency.AIP has a rapidly progressive clinical course leading to respiratory failure. The HRCT of the chest showed alveolar consolidation and ground glass-like change. The pathology of the lung includes diffuse alveolar damage. The prognosis of the AIP in children may be improved by the treatment with respiratory assistance and corticosteroids.