Endometriosis presenting with right side hydroureteronephrosis only: a case report. Endometriosis can be defined as the presence of endometrial glandular and stromal tissue outside the uterus. Affected sites of endometriosis can even be the urinary tract. Here, we present the case of a 30-year-old woman with right ureteral endometriosis. This case was important due to the unusual localization and no signs of the disease except for hydroureteronephrosis.A 30-year-old Caucasian woman with para 2 was admitted to our department for right side flank pain, dysuria and suprapubic pain. She had no complaints of vaginal discharge, bleeding or painful menstruation. Her menstrual cycles were normal and lasting for three to four days. She did not have a history of any surgical interventions. A physical examination revealed a right side costovertebral angle and suprapubic tenderness. Laboratory test results including a complete blood count, serum biochemical analysis, urine analysis and urine culture were normal. Urinary ultrasonography showed right side hydroureteronephrosis with renal cortical thinning. We suspected a right ureteral stone obstructing the ureter and a computed tomography scan was performed. The computed tomography scan revealed similar right side hydroureteronephrosis with obstruction of the ureter. No signs of stone were observed on the scan. Retrograde pyelography and diagnostic ureterorenoscopy were performed and they showed a focal stricture with a length of approximately 3 cm at the distal ureteral part and secondary hydroureteronephrosis. Open partial ureterectomy and ureteroneocystostomy with Boari flap were performed. The pathologic specimen of her ureter demonstrated intrinsic endometriosis of the right ureter with endometrial glandular cells and stromal tissue.Clinicians should suspect ureteral endometriosis in premenopausal women with unilateral or bilateral distal ureteral obstruction of uncertain cause. The main goals of the treatment should be preservation of renal function, relief of obstruction and prevention of recurrence.