Sonographic findings in postmenopausal women with a prior endometrial ablation: interpretation and management of women with endometrial thickening and bleeding. To understand the meaning of endometrial thickening and bleeding in postmenopausal women who had previously undergone endometrial ablation (EA).Retrospective observational study. Canadian Task Force III.Obstetrics and Gynecology Unit, Magna Graecia University, Catanzaro, Italy.Sixty-three postmenopausal women who had previously undergone EA.A retrospective evaluation of clinical charts of postmenopausal women who had a follow-up visit after EA between January 2000 and August 2014.The rates of endometrial thickening (with or without bleeding), endometrial atrophy, and cancer were determined. Postmenopausal bleeding was reported in 9 patients (14.3%). Endometrial thickening was observed in 51 patients (80.9% mean ± SD endometrial thickness, 7.7 ± 3.0 mm). A significantly (p < .05) greater number of patients with an endometrial thickness of 5 to 10 mm was observed compared with those with an endometrial thickness of <5 mm or >10 mm. A significant (p = .001) difference in increase in endometrial thickness was observed between patients with and without bleeding. Overall, hysteroscopy plus endometrial biopsy was scheduled in 24 patients. In all bleeding women, a histological diagnosis of endometrial atrophy was demonstrated. Concerning bleeding-free women, in 14 patients with endometrial thickening of >10 mm, mucosal atrophy was detected. The only bleeding-free patient in whom an endometrial echogenic fluid collection was detected had a histological diagnosis of endometrioid endometrial cancer. Thus, patients who underwent hysteroscopy had a 95.8% rate of mucosal atrophy and a 4.2% rate of endometrial cancer. The overall cancer rate in our global population (menopause with previous EA) was 1.6%.Postmenopausal bleeding and sonographic detection of endometrial thickening in patients with previous EA are not necessarily related to a malignant disease. Nonetheless, ultrasound visualization of endometrial thickening plus an echogenic endometrial fluid collection in these patients always warrants an invasive diagnostic procedure regardless of whether or not bleeding is reported.