The expression of microRNA-451 in human endometriotic lesions is inversely related to that of macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) and regulates MIF expression and modulation of epithelial cell survival. What is the role of microRNA-451 (miR-451) in human endometriotic tissue?miR451 expression was elevated in endometriotic lesion tissue. MiR451 modulated the expression of macrophage migration inhibitory factor and limited cell survival.microRNAs are post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression which have been reported to be mis-expressed in endometriotic tissue. The exact pattern of expression and role of miR451 in endometriosis is currently unknown.Thirty women with endometriosis are included in the study.Matched eutopic (N = 30) and endometriotic lesion tissue (N = 43) were collected. miR-451, macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), cyclin E1 (CCNE) and phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) mRNA expression were examined by quantitative real-time (qRT)-PCR while MIF protein expression was evaluated by western blot analysis. miR-451 regulation of MIF in vitro translation was confirmed by 3'untranslated region (UTR) reporter assays and western blot analysis. The effect of miR-451 on cell survival was assessed using a human endometrial epithelial cell line (HES).Compared with eutopic endometrium, both MIF mRNA and protein were significantly (P < 0.05) decreased in endometriotic lesions and this was associated with a significant (P < 0.05) increase in miR-451 expression. Transfection of HES cells with luciferase reporter constructs for MIF revealed that miR-451 specifically bound to the 3'UTR to regulate expression. Further, forced expression of miR-451 induced a significant (P < 0.05) down-regulation of both MIF mRNA and protein in HES cells which was associated with a significant (P < 0.05) reduction in cell survival. Inhibition of MIF using a specific antagonist verified that reduction of MIF contributes to HES cell survival.miR-451 and MIF expression were only examined in tissue from women with endometriosis.Our data support the hypothesis that miR-451 is elevated in endometriotic tissue and, through regulating MIF expression, may function to limit endometriotic lesion cell survival.This study was funded by the National Institutes of Health/NICHD by grant NIH HD069043 to W.B.N. The authors have no competing interests.