Efficacy and safety investigation of Kuntai capsule for the add-back therapy of gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist administration to endometriosis patients: a randomized, double-blind, blank- and tibolone-controlled study. As a Chinese Traditional Medicine product, Kuntai capsule could improve the peri-menopausal symptoms in postmenopausal women. But it is still not clear whether Kuntai capsule has a good effect on alleviating peri-menopausal symptoms induced by gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist (GnRH-a) treatment. The purpose of this study was to investigate the clinical effectiveness and safety of Kuntai capsule, on peri-menopausal symptoms in endometriosis (EMS) patients, with postoperative GnRH-a treatment.Ninety EMS ovarian cyst women with postoperative GnRH-a administration were enrolled in the study, and were randomly divided into Kuntai group, Tibolone group, or blank Control group. The therapeutic strategy in Kuntai group was 4 Kuntai capsules tid,po for 12 weeks after the first GnRH-a injection, while Tibolone 2.5 mg qd, po for 12 weeks in Tibolone group. There was no drug addition in Control group. Climacteric complaints were evaluated by Kupperman menopausal index (KMI) and hot flash/sweating score. Liver and renal functions, lipid profile, serum sex hormone levels and endometrial thickness were measured, and the frequency of adverse events in Kuntai and Tibolone groups was recorded.(1) Before GnRH-a therapy, the baseline parameter results were comparable in the three groups (P > 0.05). (2) After GnRH-a therapy, KMI and hot flash/sweating scores in all the three groups increased significantly (P < 0.05). At the 4 th week after GnRH-a therapy, KMI and hot flash/sweating score results were as follows: Control group > Kuntai group > Tibolone group (P < 0.05) at the 8 th and 12 th week after GnRH-a therapy, KMI and hot flash/sweating score in Control group were significantly higher than the other two groups (P < 0.05), and no significant difference was identified between Kuntai and Tibolone group (P > 0.05). (3) No statistical change took place in the liver and renal functions and lipid profile in all the three groups after the treatment (P > 0.05). (4) The posttherapeutic serum follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH) and estradiol (E2) level and endometrial thickness decreased significantly in all the three groups (P < 0.05). After therapy, serum E2 level in Tibolone group was obviously higher than the other two groups (P < 0.05), while FSH and LH levels were obviously lower (P < 0.05). (5) The incidence of vaginal bleeding, breast distending pain in Tibolne group was obviously higher than Kuntai group (P < 0. 05).Kuntai capsule is effective on the peri-menopausal symptoms induced by postoperative GnRH-a administration to EMS patients, although its clinical effect might be a few weeks later than Tibolone. Kuntai capsule might be a little safer than Tibolone tablet.