Reducing invasiveness of laparoscopic surgery using natural orifices and abdominal wall defects for extraction of the specimen. Due to significant technical evolution complex surgeries can be performed laparoscopically nowadays. However, laparotomy is needed frequently for the extraction of the specimen, which decreases the advantages of laparoscopy.The aim of the authors was to analyse and present their experience on the use of natural orifices and abdominal wall defects for extraction of the surgical specimen.From 2009 the authors used natural orifices (stomach, vagina, rectum) when viscerotomy was an obligate part of laparoscopic surgery and, in a special gastrointestinal laparoscopic operation, the gate of the inguinal hernia for specimen extraction.In 3 patients benign lesions of the stomach were extracted using gastroscope. In 6 patients with bowel endometriosis, in whom the wall of the vagina was completely infiltrated, the resected bowel was extracted transvaginally, and in 5 patients transrectal extraction of the specimen was performed. In 2 patients the inguinal hernia was used for the surgical specimen extraction after laparoscopic sigmoid resection, and in one patient a single-port was inserted into the gate of the hernia during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Complications occurred only after transvaginal specimen extraction (rectovaginal fistula in 2 patients).Use of natural orifices and abdominal wall defects for surgical specimen extraction further decreases the invasiveness of laparoscopic surgery, if indications made appropriately.Bevezetés: A laparoszkópos sebészet fejlődésével ma már bonyolult műtétek is elvégezhetőek, a specimen eltávolításához azonban gyakran laparotomiára van szükség, ami csökkenti a laparoszkópia előnyeit. Célkitűzés: A közleményben a szerzők e témában szerzett saját tapasztalataikról számolnak be. Módszer: A szerzők 2009 óta azokban az esetekben, amikor a viscerotomia a műtét elkerülhetetlen része volt, a természetes szájadékokat (gyomor, hüvely, végbél), illetve egyes gastrointestinalis laparoszkópos beavatkozásoknál a lágyéksérv kapuját használták fel a specimen eltávolítására. Eredmények: Gyomor benignus elváltozása miatt 3 alkalommal végezték a specimen gasztroszkópos eltávolítását. Belet infiltráló endometriosis miatt 6 esetben transvaginalisan (amikor teljes hüvelyfalkimetszésre volt szükség), 5 esetben pedig transrectalisan távolították el a reszekált belet. 2 esetben laparoszkópos szigmabélreszekciónál a lágyéksérv kapuját használták fel a specimen eltávolítására, egy betegnél a sérvkapuba helyezett single porton keresztül végeztek laparoszkópos cholecystectomiát. Szövődményt kizárólag az endometriosis miatt végzett transvaginalis specimen eltávolításánál észleltek, ahol a műtét után 2 esetben alakult ki rectovaginalis fistula. Következtetések: A specimen eltávolításához a természetes szájadékokat, hasfali defektusokat felhasználva – megfelelő indikációval – az invazivitás tovább csökkenthető. Orv. Hetil., 2015, 156(14), 552–557.