Clinicopathologic features observation of ovarian transitional cell tumors. To assess clinical and pathological features of ovarian transitional cell tumors.Fourteen cases of ovarian transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) were selected and investigated for their clinical and pathological features. Their immunohistochemical profiles were compared with 12 cases of serous adenocarcinoma (SC) admixed with TCC and 4 cases of EC admixed with TCC 20 cases of pure high-grade serous adenocarcinoma (HG-SC), 15 cases of endometrioid adenocarcinoma (EC), 6 cases of Brenner tumor (BT, 2 cases of malignant BT and 4 cases of benign BT).The patients' age ranged from 36-63 years (mean, 56 years). All cases underwent surgery and postoperative chemotherapy with TP or CAP program. Clinical follow-up was available in 9 cases, of which 2 patients died. Histologically, all cases showed features of transitional cell carcinoma without BT component. Immunohistochemically, 13 of 14 TCCs were positive for WT-1 and all were positive for CK7, ER, PR and CA125, but negative for Uroplakin III and CK20.Similar immunohistochemical staining patterns were seen in SC admixed with TCC and pure HG-SC. Percentage of the 14 TCC cases were also diffusely positive for BRCA1. All SCs admixed with TCC and pure HG-SCs were diffusely or heterogeneously positive for WT-1, with a sharp contrast and mottled distribution pattern in the heterogeneous cases. All TCCs were diffusely and strongly positive for p53, while 16 of 20 cases of pure HG-SC were positive. The positive ratio of p53 in SCs admixed with TCC cases was 11/12.WT-1 expression in TCCs was significantly higher than BTs, ECs and ECs admixed with TCC (P < 0.01), while no obvious difference was seen when compared with SCs admixed with TCC and pure HG-SCs.SCs admixed with TCC, TCCs and EC were positive for BRCA1 except pure ECs and BTs. The positive rate of Ki-67 of BTs was low, while it was higher in TCCs, SCs admixed with TCC and pure HG-SCs. Only BTs expressed Uroplakin III.Ovarian TCC has characteristic morphological and immunohistochemical features, similar to SC but different from BT. Therefore, TCC should be considered as a morphological variant of HG-SC.