Effect of Bushenwenyanghuayu decoction on nerve growth factor and bradykinin/bradykinin B1 receptor in a endometriosis dysmenorrhea mouse model. To observe the effects of Bushenwenyanghuayu decoction (BD), a Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), on the serum concentration of nerve growth factor (NGF) and bradykinin (BK), and protein and mRNA levels of NGF and bradykinin B1 receptor (BKB1R) in a mouse model of endometriosis dysmenorrhea.Seventy-five experimental female BALB/c mice were randomly divided into five groups, 15 mice each: sham, model, BD high dose (61.67 g/kg), BD low dose (15.42 g/kg), and gestrinone (0.4 mg/kg) groups. All the mice except for those in the sham group underwent auto-transplantation surgery and were gavaged estradiol valerate (0.5 mg/kg, daily for 12 days) after surgery. On the 12th day, 1 h after administration, writhing response was induced by intraperitoneal injection of oxytocin at 2 U/mouse. The writhing frequency and latency were recorded and the volume of the ectopic foci was measured. The concentration of serum NGF and BK was detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, the protein expression of NGF and BKB1R was tested by immunohistochemistry and western blotting, and NGF and BKB1R mRNAs were detected by real-time PCR.Compared with the model group, the volume of the ectopic foci in the treatment groups was significantly lower (P < 0.01), the writhing frequency was decreased (P < 0.05), and the writhing latency was prolonged (P < 0.01). Compared with the sham group, serum NGF and BK levels in the model group were significantly increased (P < 0.01). There were positive correlations for writhing frequency among the NGF and BK groups (P < 0.01). The serum NGF and BK levels were significantly lower in the treatment groups than the model group (P < 0.05). The protein expression of NGF, BKB1R was significantly decreased in the treatment groups compared with the model group (P < 0.01). NGF and BKB1R mRNA expression was significantly decreased in the treatment groups compared with the model group (P < 0.01).NGF and BK/BKB1R may play an important role in the development of endometriosis-associated dysmenorrhea, and BD was found to inhibit the development of endometriosis and relieve dysmenorrhea by influencing NGF and BK/ BKB1R mRNA and protein levels.