Metastatic tumors in the ovary, difficulties of histologic diagnosis. The ovary is a common site of metastases. Secondary tumors account for 3-40% of all ovarian malignancies. Most ovarian metastases arise from the colon, although tumors of the breast, stomach and endometrium are also common places of origin. Clinical and histological features of metastatic tumors frequently mimic primary ovarian malignancies, causing serious diagnostic problems for the surgical pathologist. However, differentiation between primary ovarian cancer and ovarian metastasis is important in order to prevent inappropriate management and suboptimal treatment. The distinction between primary and secondary ovarian malignancies is especially difficult in cases when the metastasis is diagnosed before the primary tumor. Frozen section is widely used in the intra-operative assessment of patients with ovarian tumors but it can be very difficult to distinguish certain types of primary ovarian tumors and metastases from other sites. We examined 152 cases of secondary ovarian neoplasm diagnosed at the National Institute of Oncology, Hungary from 2000 to 2014. Colorectal cancer was the most common primary tumor (58 cases), followed by breast (33 cases), endometrium (30 cases) and stomach cancer (13 cases). The differential diagnosis proved the most difficult in cases when endometrioid and mucinous tumors were present in the ovaries. Metastases of colorectal and gastric adenocarcinomas may simulate benign or borderline cystadenomas too. In these cases the knowledge of the patient's history and immunohistochemical stains were helpful. In our study we discuss the diagnostic challenge of distinguishing these secondary ovarian tumors from primary ovarian neoplasms and the limits of the intraoperative frozen sections.A petefészek az egyik leggyakoribb helye az áttétképzõdésnek, a rosszindulatú daganatainak 3–40%-a metasztatikus eredetû. A primer tumor leggyakrabban – az esetek egyharmadában – vastagbél-kiindulású, azonban a gyomor-, az emlõ- és az endometriumtumorok is gyakran adnak áttétet a petefészekbe. Az áttéti tumorok mind klinikai, mind szöveti megjelenésükben petefészek-kiindulású tumort utánozhatnak. Elkülönítésük a beteg onkológiai kezelése szempontjából döntõ fontosságú. Azonban a diagnózis felállítása különösen nehéz lehet, amikor az áttéti folyamat hamarabb kerül felismerésre, mint a primer tumor. A petefészek-elváltozásoknál gyakran indokolt intraoperatív fagyasztásos vizsgálatok során is komoly diagnosztikus kihívást jelenthet a primer vagy szekunder jelleg megítélése. Munkánkban 152, intézetünkben 2000 és 2014 között másodlagos petefészektumorként diagnosztizált esetet tekintettünk át. Legtöbbször, 58 esetben vastagbél-kiindulást igazoltunk, amit az emlõ (33 eset), az endometrium (30 eset) és a gyomor (13 eset) tumorai követtek. Az áttéti jelleg megítélése a mucinosus és endometrioid tumorok esetén bizonyult a legnehezebbnek. A vastagbél- és gyomortumorok áttétei benignus vagy borderline cystadenoma morfológiáját is utánozhatták, ilyenkor a dignitás megítélése is problémát jelentett. Ezekben az esetekben a klinikai adatok ismerete és az immunfenotípus vizsgálata döntõ fontosságú volt. Munkánk során ezen áttéti tumorok diagnosztikus nehézségeit foglaljuk össze, kitérve az intraoperatív fagyasztásos vizsgálatok nehézségeire is.