Reliability of environmental, biological and health characteristics of infants from a developing country. Although most epidemiological data are gathered by interviews, few studies ascertain their reliability. This study quantified inter-observer reliability of environmental, biological and health characteristics of underprivileged children, in a southern Brazilian state.Five health care professionals who had received extensive standardized interview and observation training interviewed mothers and observed the home environments of a random sample of 102 children. A second interview was conducted by a sixth health professional who had received separate but identical training without the initial interviewer knowing a follow-up interview would be conducted. Data from the two independent interviews and observations were compared for agreement using the kappa statistic.There was excellent agreement (kappa > 0.75) for most of the household characteristics, such as type of walls, ceiling, floor and windows in spite of the diversity of buildings. Presence of the parents, number of people in the house-hold, age of the mother and health assistance were reliable as well. However, information about skin colour of the mother and the number of cracks in the house only reached fair agreement.These results showed that data gathered by observation and interviews generate accurate information about environmental, biological and health care characteristics. Those based on written information, such as birth date, were highly concordant.In Brazil, data from a case control study of risk factors for pneumonia among low-income children less than 24 months old were used to quantify the reliability of inter-observer information about environmental, biological, and health characteristics of these children.  Five experienced field workers who underwent training in role play, classroom lectures, discussions, and closely-supervised field practice interviewed the mothers of 102 children and observed their home environments.  Another experienced professional, unknown to the other field workers, who received the same instructions as the others but independently of them conducted a second independent assessment three weeks after the initial assessment.  All the interviewers were blind to the objective of this study.  Even though the dwellings were quite diverse, the researchers found excellent agreement (kappa statistic 75) for most household characteristics (type of walls, presence and type of ceiling, type of floor, and presence, type, and number of windows in child's bedroom).  Agreement was also good to excellent for presence of parents, number of people in the household, age of the mother, and history of previous  pneumonia, hospitalization, and immunization.  Agreement was relatively good when the number of cracks in the wall was 0 (0.76) or more than 20 (0.65) but not when it ranged from 1 to 19 (0.3-0.38).  Agreement on skin color was more reliable when skin color was White or Black (0.77 and 0.78, respectively) than it was for mixed (0.63).  Data based on written information yielded the most concordance while observation of sensitive risk factors (i.e., skin color and number of cracks [indicator for poor housing]) yielded the lowest concordance.  These findings show that observation- and interview-collected data yield accurate information about environmental, biological, and health care characteristics.