Second trimester maternal serum screening using alpha fetoprotein, free beta human chorionic gonadotropin and maternal age specific risk: result of chromosomal abnormalities detected in screen positive for Down syndrome in an Asian population. This study was to determine the incidence of chromosome abnormalities in Taiwanese women undergoing prenatal chromosome analysis after a second trimester Down syndrome screening by using maternal age and serum dual-marker testing (alpha-fetoprotein and free-beta unit human chorionic gonadotropin).A total of 10,098 Taiwanese women with pregnancy between 15 and 23 weeks' gestation received second-trimester Down syndrome risk evaluation by dual-marker and maternal age specific risk testing in a single medical center. The study took 22 months. Ninety-seven percent of this study population was less than 34 years old. Ninety-six percent of our cases were screened between 15-20 weeks of gestation. This population was included only after a routine ultrasonography scan for correction of gestational age and exclusion of major structural anomalies. By using an algorithm to detect Down's syndrome, with a risk of 1:270 as a cut-off value, 816 patients were screen-positive for Down syndrome (screen-positive rate 8.0%). Karyotypes were reviewed for 670 (82.1%) mothers who received prenatal karyotype analysis.Twelve cases of Down syndrome were identified in the screen positive group with an estimated detection rate of 67% (false positive rate 8%). Three cases of Down syndrome were detected in late trimester among the screen-negative group. Seven other fetal chromosome abnormalities were also found among the screen-positive pregnancy. In addition, seven cases were screen-positive for trisomy 18 all of these patients received amniocentesis and only one case was confirmed.These findings indicate that this screening program combining alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), free beta human chorionic gonadotropin (free-hCG) and maternal age-specific would achieve a screening efficiency in Taiwanese populations as comparable to those obtained in Caucasian populations. Our results also suggest that approximately 3% of pregnancies with a positive dual marker and maternal age-specific screen results will have a chromosome abnormality despite having a normal routine ultrasound scan. Mothers with positive screening results should be made aware of the implications of a positive result.