Strategies for the isolation and detection of fetal cells in transcervical samples. The aim of the study was to evaluate the detection of fetal cells from transcervical samples, collected in early pregnancy, by means of different molecular techniques. The value of the isolation of trophoblasts using an inverted microscope, also referred to as micromanipulation, is discussed.All the 89 specimens were obtained by intrauterine lavages before termination of pregnancy (TOP), between 7 and 12 weeks of gestation. Micromanipulation was carried out in a subgroup of 57 for the isolation of fetal material. Fetal sexing was achieved by FISH (fluorescent in situ hybridisation) using fluorescently labelled probes for X and Y chromosomes and by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Male samples were also investigated for aneuploidy of the chromosome 21. Quantitative fluorescent (QF)-PCR using two short tandem repeat (STR) markers for chromosome 21 was carried out in 26 micromanipulated samples.FISH analysis revealed that 45/89 placental samples derived from pregnancies with male fetuses. Correct sexing of the lavage samples from male pregnancies was achieved in 41/45 (91%) using dual-FISH technique, and in 43/45 (95.5%) with PCR. All the samples derived from male pregnancies tested for chromosome 21 were normal. From 57 samples subjected to micromanipulation, 51 (89.5%) showed discernible chorionic villous filaments or cell clumps of possible trophoblastic origin. One case of tetraploidy and two cases of monosomy were recorded. The rate of fetal cells, in the non-micromanipulated samples, was between 4% and 97% (mean 54.3%). In micromanipulated specimens, maternal contaminant cells were absent or extremely rare (1-2%). The efficiency of the QF-PCR analysis in detecting paternal peaks in all lavage samples was only 61.5%.The present study confirms the presence of fetal cells in a very high proportion of both whole and micromanipulated intrauterine lavage samples. The isolation of trophoblastic elements can be achieved in most cases by micromanipulation. FISH and PCR techniques allowed the analysis of the most common fetal aneuploidies, confirming the power of this minimally invasive method.