Chromosomal abnormalities in fetuses with open neural tube defects: prenatal identification with ultrasound. To determine the prevalence of chromosomal abnormalities in fetuses with open neural tube defects (NTD) undergoing prenatal chromosome analysis. The role of prenatal ultrasound in detecting those with an underlying chromosomal abnormality was also investigated.Over a 6-year period, 144 fetuses with open NTD underwent prenatal chromosome analysis between 12 and 37 weeks of gestation, as part of a prospective, multicenter prenatal diagnosis and counseling program in Chile. This population included 66 fetuses with spina bifida, 46 with acrania/anencephaly, 21 with cephalocele and 11 with iniencephaly. A confident prenatal diagnosis was made in 143 fetuses (99%) and confirmed postnatally in all cases.An underlying chromosomal abnormality was diagnosed in 10 fetuses (7%), six with spina bifida, three with cephalocele and one with craniorachischisis. The prevalence of chromosomal abnormality varied according to the defect present in the fetus, with a 14% (3/21) prevalence among those with cephalocele, 9% (6/66) among those with spina bifida and 2% (1/57) among those with lethal defects such as acrania, anencephaly or iniencephaly. Karyotype results revealed trisomy 18 in seven cases, trisomy 13 in two and mosaicism for a marker chromosome in one. Prenatal ultrasound before the procedure showed that all chromosomally abnormal fetuses had additional findings. The prevalence of chromosomal abnormality in fetuses with spina bifida and cephalocele was higher when chromosome analysis was performed at or before 24 weeks of gestation in comparison to those performed after 24 weeks (5/31 (16%) vs. 4/56 (7%), respectively). However, this difference did not reach statistical significance, probably due to the small number of cases.A significant number of fetuses with open NTD are chromosomally abnormal. Although prenatal chromosome analysis should be considered in all cases, prenatal ultrasound seems effective in identifying those fetuses with an underlying chromosomal abnormality.