Isolated fetal intracardiac hyperechogenic focus associated with neonatal outcome and triple test results. To investigate the relationship between isolated intracardiac hyperechogenic focus (IHF) in the mid trimester of pregnancy with neonatal outcomes and triple test results.The study included low-risk pregnant women who came for routine follow-up to our antenatal clinic between years 2000 and 2005. A detailed structural survey by ultrasound (USG) of the fetal heart was performed on each fetus in the mid-trimester of pregnancy. All patients had mid-trimester triple tests performed between the 16th and 18th weeks' of pregnancy. We recruited a total of 40 pregnancies that had fetal IHF in the level II USG examination and a control group of 100 healthy pregnant women those which were followed-up during the same period. Twenty-nine fetuses (72.5%) had left, 8 (20%) had right whereas 3 (7.5%) had bilateral ventricular IHF. We compared the perinatal and neonatal outcomes and triple test results of the fetuses that had right and left IHF, and the controls.Cytogenetic amniocentesis was performed to 6 (15%) women in the study and 5 (5%) in the control group and all were normal. During follow-up IHF spontaneously disappeared in 30 fetuses [right (n: 5), left (n: 23) or bilateral (n: 2)]. We did not observe any cardiac problem in the postnatal period in all newborns. Only one infant (2.5%) in the study group was admitted to neonatal intensive care unit because of prematurity. Median delivery weeks (P = 0.023), head circumference (P = 0.013), 5-min Apgar score (P = 0.021] and apnea (P = 0.042) were significantly higher in fetuses with right IHF. Compared to the controls, median delivery weeks (P = 0.038) was significantly higher in fetuses with right IHF, but head circumference (P = 0.004), 1-min (P = 0.003) and 5-min (P < 0.001) Apgar scores were lower in fetuses with left IHF. However no difference was observed in second-trimester serum human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG), alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) and estriol (E(3)) levels, in the three groups. There was no correlation between serum HCG, AFP and E(3) levels and the presence of IHF.Isolated IHF in the fetal heart in the mid-trimester of pregnancy seems not associated with adverse neonatal outcome and does not correlate with triple test results.