Incidence of legal abortions and congenital abnormalities in Hungary. The annual and monthly distributions of congenital abnormalities and pregnancy outcomes as confounding factors were evaluated in Hungary in reflection of the accident at the Chernobyl reactor. The different congenital abnormality entities and the components of fetal radiation syndrome did not show a higher rate after the Chernobyl accident in the data-set of the Hungarian Congenital Abnormality Registry. Among confounding factors, the rate of induced abortions did not increase after the Chernobyl accident in Hungary. In the 9th month after the peak of public concern (May and June, 1986) the rate of livebirths decreased. Three indicator conditions: 15 sentinel anomalies as indicators of germinal dominant gene mutations, Down syndrome as an indicator of germinal numerical and structural chromosomal mutations, and unidentified multiple congenital abnormalities as indicators of germinal dominant gene and chromosomal mutations were selected from the material of the Hungarian Congenital Abnormality Registry. Diagnoses were checked, familial and sporadic cases were separated and only the sporadic cases were evaluated. The analysis of indicator conditions did not reveal any measurable germinal mutagenic effect of the Chernobyl accident in Hungary.The Hungarian Investigation of the effects of radiation from the Chernobyl accident involved evaluation of isolated and multiple congenital anomalies (CAs), unidentified CAs, fetal radiation syndrome, induced abortions, sentinel anomalies, and Down syndrome prevalence.  There were no measurable teratogenic and germinal mutagenic effects after the April 28-May 15, 1986 impact.  The highest beta activity occurred through late June.  The highest external gamma ray level was .4 uSv.  Hungary had the 13th highest radiocesium (Cs 137) deposition (7.9 x 10 to the 14th power Bg) and the 10th-11th highest national collective 50-year total body dose (1.3 x 10 to the 4th power person Gy).  The level of external dose and individual total body ingestion dose gave Hungary a rank of 70th.  The maximum extra dose was around .4 mSv in some regions.  Mortality is obligatorily recorded and all births take place in hospitals with obstetrically trained birth attendants where CAs are also recorded.  Registration of CAs is considered nearly complete and is available from the Hungarian Congenital Abnormality Registry (HCAR).  Data on induced abortion, fetal deaths, and live births is provided by the Central Statistical Office to HCAR.  The Hungarian Surveillance of Germinal Mutations (HSGM) provides data on sentinel anomalies, Down syndrome, and unidentified multiple CAs.  The results indicate that isolated and multiple CA entities in 1986 and 1987, annually or monthly, did not exceed the rates of previous years.  Microencephaly, cataracts, microphthalmos, and CAs of the eyes, and other fetal radiation syndrome showed no monthly increase and did not exceed the expected numbers based on baseline figures of 1973-82, regardless of region.  The monthly distribution of induced abortions did not change after Chernobyl.  February and March 1987 births decreased in the 9=month period after Chernobyl.  An average of 3.7 new mutations/10,000 live births was found annually between 1980-89 which was not a significant change.  Down syndrome cases averaged 104.year due to numerical or structural chromosomal changes and was not considered significant.  Unidentified MCAs did not show an increased rate.