Four years' experience with an interlaboratory comparison program involving first-trimester markers of Down syndrome. We initiated a voluntary, self-funded interlaboratory comparison program in the fall of 2005 because no proficiency testing program was available to laboratories in North America offering first-trimester, combined serum and ultrasound, Down syndrome screening. Objectives.-To evaluate the first 4 years of the interlaboratory comparison program against stated goals, to identify areas of concern, and to create new initiatives as indicated.Five serum samples are distributed 3 times a year to be tested for pregnancy-associated plasma protein A, human chorionic gonadotropin or its β subunit, and dimeric inhibin-A participants convert these results into multiples of the median. Patient histories include nuchal translucency information that enables the calculation of the risk of Down syndrome. Also included are educational components linked to interlaboratory comparison program results. Assessment of integrated (first- and second-trimester markers) risks is accomplished by having participants combine interlaboratory comparison program results with their results from a second-trimester proficiency testing program administered by the College of American Pathologists.The precision profile for pregnancy-associated plasma protein A shows decreasing coefficients of variation with increasing pregnancy-associated plasma protein A concentrations and multiples of the median (25% to 11% and 30% to 15%, respectively). In contrast, coefficients of variation are a relatively constant 12% throughout the entire range of human chorionic gonadotropin results. On a logarithmic scale, the median coefficient of variation of the risk of Down syndrome is 9%.Participants in the interlaboratory comparison program reliably measure analytes, compute multiples of the median, and calculate consistent Down syndrome risks. Assays for the measurement of pregnancy-associated plasma protein A are not standardized and are less precise than those for human chorionic gonadotropin. Participants calculate reliable median equations given sonographer-specific sets of paired crown-rump length and nuchal translucency measurements.