The price of progress. The author questions the appropriateness of fetal monitoring when the mother is left with the psychological burden of suspected abnormality. The primary objective is to increase information about the prevention and cure of the abnormality at the same time as expanding knowledge about embryology.  The power to choose life over death is very powerful and can carry with it psychological trauma.  People are faced with impossible decisions or having to live with what might be in retrospect the wrong decision.  Reference is made to the book by Barbara Katz Rothman on "The Tentative Pregnancy," which reiterates that physicians assume that more information about fetal development is better and any intervention to reduce the risk of an abnormal baby is beneficial without consideration of the psychological and emotional effects on the mother.  Several examples are given of the moral dilemmas faced by people.  A woman tested with a low level of alphafetoprotein (AFT) during normal 16-week pregnancy testing, at which time she was then informed that there was a possible link to Down syndrome.  Further chromosome analysis needed to be conducted, but in the meantime the woman was left traumatized over the possibilities and concern about amniocentesis.  The results indicated a reduced possibility and uncertainty.  The mother then felt both relief and doubt, but decided to proceed with the pregnancy.  The other example is of a woman who had a child who died at the age of 10 and expressed no regrets, but when questioned about whether she would have continued a pregnancy knowingly aware the baby would die in 10 years, the woman replied that she could not imagine how anyone could be so strong as to bear a child knowing the brevity of its life.  Severely limiting malformations or immediately lethal repercussions seem to be decisions made more easily, but the question is raised as to what is morally justifiable for less severe conditions with test that are not 100% reliable.