Targeted photothermal ablation of murine melanomas with melanocyte-stimulating hormone analog-conjugated hollow gold nanospheres. To develop melanoma-targeted hollow gold nanospheres (HAuNS) and evaluate their potential utility for selective photothermal ablation in melanoma.A new class of photothermal coupling agents based on HAuNS was synthesized. HAuNS were stabilized with polyethylene glycol (PEG) coating and attached with alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) analog, [Nle4,D-Phe7]alpha-MSH (NDP-MSH), which is a potent agonist of melanocortin type-1 receptor overexpressed in melanoma. The intracellular uptake of the NDP-MSH-conjugated PEGylated HAuNS (NDP-MSH-PEG-HAuNS) and the distribution of beta-arrestin were examined in murine B16/F10 melanoma cells. The biodistribution of NDP-MSH-PEG-HAuNS was assessed at 4 hours post i.v. injection in tumor-bearing nude mice. Photothermal ablation effect of the nanoparticles was evaluated both histologically using excised tissue and functionally by [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography.NDP-MSH-PEG-HAuNS consist only of a thin gold wall with hollow interior (outer diameter, 43.5 +/- 2.3 nm shell thickness, 3-4 nm), which displays strong and tunable resonance absorption in near-IR region (peak, 808 nm). The nanoparticles were specifically taken up by melanoma cells, which initiated the recruitment of beta-arrestins, the adapters to link the activated G-protein-coupled receptors to clathrin, indicating the involvement of receptor-mediated endocytosis. This resulted in enhanced extravasation of NDP-MSH-PEG-HAuNS from tumor blood vessels and their dispersion into tumor matrix compared with nonspecific PEGylated HAuNS. Successful selective photothermal ablation of B16/F10 melanoma with targeted HAuNS was confirmed by histologic and [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography evaluation at 24 hours post near IR-region laser irradiation at a low-dose energy of 30 J/cm2.NDP-MSH-PEG-HAuNS have the potentials to mediate targeted photothermal ablation of melanoma.