Surgical intervention and radiotherapy outcome of solitary plasmacytoma of cervical spine. To study the clinical features, treatment methods and outcome of solitary plasmacytoma of cervical spine.From January 1995 to December 2007, the data of 23 cases with solitary plasmacytoma of cervical spine was analyzed. There were 16 males and 7 females (mean age 56 years, range: 32 - 76 years). Two cases underwent radiotherapy alone and 21 patients received surgery. According to WBB staging system, surgical procedures were defined as total or subtotal resection (6 cases), appendix resection (4 cases), sagittal resection (3 cases) and total spondylectomy (8 cases). All surgical cases were managed using an anterior approach, posterior approach or combined anterior and posterior approach. The cervical spinal reconstruction was achieved through anterior cervical titanium plate and titanium mesh cage filled with auto iliac graft or bone cement, or anterior and posterior combined instrumented fusion. All patients received radiotherapy as adjunctive therapy.Follow-up of the 23 cases lasted 24.0 - 143.0 months (mean: 64.7 months). Neck pains obviously improved, and nerve compression symptoms disappeared or improved after surgery. Neurological function improved by 1 - 2 grades based on Frankel grading system. All the internal fixations were fused well and stability of the cervical spine was fine and no spine instability could be seen in our series. The bone graft fusion rate was 100%. During the follow-up period, 6 surgical cases had local recurrence and finally progressed to multiple myeloma (MM) and 3 died. Two cases without surgical treatment progressed to MM in 1 year and 1.5 years after confirmed diagnosis. They were given systemic chemotherapy. The other 15 patients had disease-free survival and after surgery and adjunctive radiotherapy. Obvious abnormity were not found in such examinations as M protein, bone marrow aspiration and emission computed tomography or PET-CT examinations.Solitary plasmacytoma of cervical spine is rarely seen clinically. Surgery is recommended as the primary management for patients with overt bone destruction and spinal instability or neurological dysfunction. Tumor excision with adjunctive radiotherapy can obviously reduce local recurrences and lower the possibility of progression to MM. The patients with progression to MM should receive chemotherapy according to chemotherapy protocol while the prognosis is comparatively worse.