Prognostic value of interim FDG PET/CT in Hodgkin's lymphoma patients treated with interim response-adapted strategy: comparison of International Harmonization Project (IHP), Gallamini and London criteria. Interim 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) has shown to be an accurate predictor of prognosis in Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL). However, FDG PET response criteria are a matter of ongoing debate. The aim of this study was to confirm the prognostic value of interim PET/CT in HL patients treated with an interim response-adapted strategy and to compare the respective performances of different published criteria.Newly diagnosed patients with HL underwent interim PET/CT after four courses of Adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine (ABVD). The treatment strategy was adapted according to prognostic factors at diagnosis and interim PET/CT and CT results. PET images were prospectively interpreted visually: a negative result was defined as no residual uptake above local background. All other findings were considered as positive. Retrospectively, interim PET/CT was analysed according to International Harmonization Project (IHP), Gallamini and London criteriaThe analysis included 90 patients 6 of 31 patients with positive interim PET/CT and 7 of 59 patients with negative interim result presented treatment failure. The negative predictive value (NPV) and positive predictive value (PPV) for predicting 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) was 95 and 16%, respectively. With the other criteria, NPV remained very high (from 95 to 96%). The PPV increased from 19 to 45% according to the threshold used. Interim PET/CT was significantly correlated with PFS with Gallamini (p = 0.01) and London criteria (p < 0.0001).Our study confirms the high NPV of interim PET/CT for predicting treatment outcome in HL and a probably better prognostic value using a higher threshold for positivity even after four cycles of chemotherapy as used in Gallamini and London criteria.