Value of bone SPECT-CT to predict chronic pain relief after percutaneous vertebroplasty in vertebral fractures. Longer life span has resulted in increased risk of vertebral osteoporotic fractures. Among minimally invasive procedures, percutaneous vertebroplasty (PV) has shown excellent results in the treatment of chronic vertebral pain. The role of preintervention bone single photon emission computed tomography-computed tomography (SPECT-CT) has not been clearly established for the management of these patients.To determine the value of bone SPECT-CT in patient selection, treatment planning, and prediction of response to PV. A comparison with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was also aimed.Prospective consecutive series.We studied the performance of bone SPECT-CT on 33 consecutive patients with chronic pain because of vertebral fracture intended for PV.Improvement of clinical status was based on comparison of preprocedure and postprocedure outcome measurements of pain, mobility, and analgesic use.Bone SPECT was done using a dual-detector variable-angle gamma camera coupled with a two-slice CT scanner (Symbia T2 System Siemens, Munich, Germany). Magnetic resonance imaging was done using a magnet of 1.5 T (Giroscan System ACS NT InteraOf the 33 patients, 24 finally underwent PV. Positive SPECT-CT images predicted clinical improvement in 91% (21 of 23) of them. Agreement between SPECT-CT and MRI was 80% (20 of 25). Single photon emission computed tomography-computed tomography images showed an alternative cause of pain in some cases, such as new fractures or multiple coexisting fractures, persisting bone remodeling in a previous cemented vertebra, and facet or discal degenerative disease. Single photon emission computed tomography-computed tomography was mandatory in eight patients that could no receive MRI, all of whom improved after PV.Positive bone SPECT-CT seems a good predictor of postprocedural response. It also adds valuable information as to the cause of back pain and facilitates complete patient evaluation in patients that can not receive MRI.