Association between erythrocyte mean corpuscular volume and peripheral arterial disease in male subjects: a case control study. Elevated serum total homocysteine, an established risk factor for peripheral arterial disease, is influenced by the vitamin B12 and folate status. Since these vitamins are inversely correlated with erythrocyte mean corpuscular volume, an investigation of whether mean corpuscular volume is higher in patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease than in healthy subjects was performed. Furthermore, a determination of predictors of increased mean corpuscular volume levels in this population free of symptomatic coronary artery disease, cerebrovascular disease, and diabetes mellitus was carried out. From 469 consecutive patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease, 100 fulfilled study inclusion criteria. Peripheral arterial disease was confirmed by angiography. One hundred age-matched subjects without peripheral arterial disease as verified by ankle-brachial index measurements >0.9 served as control subjects. Patients with PAD displayed a significantly higher mean corpuscular volume level (94.5 fl) than control subjects (90.9 fl, p<0.001). Logistic regression analysis showed that current smoking status (p<0.001) and mean corpuscular volume (p=0.009), but not total homocysteine or lipid parameters discriminated case control status. In addition, logistic regression analysis revealed a relationship of mean corpuscular volume with smoking (p=0.001), gamma-glutamyltransferase (p<0.001), and total homocysteine (p=0.012). This model predicted mean corpuscular volume values with an accuracy of 83%. Elevated mean corpuscular volume is a predictor of symptomatic peripheral arterial disease in the sample studied. A deficiency of folate and/or vitamin B12 may be responsible for this observation, as indicated by the correlation of mean corpuscular volume with total homocysteine. Due to the additional association of mean corpuscular volume with smoking and gamma-glutamyltransferase, an unhealthy lifestyle with low vitamin intake may cause elevated mean corpuscular volume values in patients with PAD.