Electromyography findings of the cricopharyngeus in association with ipsilateral pharyngeal and laryngeal muscles. We reviewed a large series of cricopharyngeal (CP) muscle electromyography (EMG) results and compared them with the EMG results from the inferior constrictor (IC), thyroarytenoid, (TA), cricothyroid (CT), and posterior cricoarytenoid (PCA) muscles.We performed a retrospective review of all CP muscle EMG reports from studies performed between January 1996 and June 2003. All of the tested elements from the CP muscle EMG reports were recorded. The EMG results were recorded for the ipsilateral IC, TA, CT, and PCA muscles if they were simultaneously tested. Each muscle result was classified as normal, neurogenic inactive axonal injury (IAI), or neurogenic active axonal injury (AAI), and the muscle findings were compared. A patient chart review was performed to determine a clinical correlation.Fifty-nine patients underwent CP muscle EMG. Eighteen patients had bilateral EMG studies, making a total of 77 CP muscle studies. Nineteen sets of CP muscle results were normal, 43 demonstrated neurogenic IAI, and 15 demonstrated neurogenic AAI. The ipsilateral IC and CP muscles had the same innervation status in 27 of 28 studies (p < .0001). When the ipsilateral TA muscle was studied simultaneously with the CP muscle, 31 of 50 studies had the same innervation status (p = .005). The ipsilateral CT and CP muscles demonstrated the same innervation status in 40 of 50 studies (p < .0001). The correlations between the CP and IC muscle findings and between the CP and CT muscle findings were both stronger than the correlation between the CP and TA muscle findings (p < .0001 and p = .024, respectively). The chart review demonstrated the clinical findings to be consistent with the EMG results.The EMG studies demonstrated that CP muscle findings have the strongest correlation with IC muscle findings, followed by the CT and TA muscles. This outcome does not support theories indicating that the recurrent laryngeal nerve innervates the CP muscle in all cases.