Effect of combination therapy of benidipine hydrochloride and candesartan cilexetil on serum lipid metabolism and blood pressure in elderly hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. The effects of combination therapy of angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) and a calcium antagonist, benidipine hydrochloride, on glucose and lipid metabolism and pulse pressure were studied in elderly hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Twenty-five hypertensive diabetic patients aged 65 years or older, who had been receiving candesartan cilexetil, were administered benidipine hydrochloride (4 mg/day) and followed for 4 months. After 4 months, systolic and diastolic blood pressure decreased significantly from 154/91 mmHg to 139/78 mmHg (p<0.01 versus before benidipine hydrochloride administration). Body mass index (BMI) and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) were apparently reduced but the changes were not statistically significant. The serum lipid profile showed no significant changes in serum total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). Serum lipoprotein lipase mass levels (preheparin LPL mass) increased significantly from 51 to 59 ng/dl (p<0.01 versus before benidipine hydrochloride administration), and the LDL/HDL motility ratio calculated from PAG disc electrophoresis decreased significantly (p<0.05 versus before benidipine hydrochloride administration). When patients were divided into a systolic hypertension group (systolic blood pressure > or =140 mmHg and diastolic blood pressure <90 mmHg) and non-systolic hypertension group (others), preheparin LPL mass was significantly lower in the systolic hypertension group, and the decrease in pulse pressure and increase in preheparin LPL mass were significantly greater in the systolic hypertension group. Stepwise regression analysis showed that low preheparin LPL mass at baseline was associated with a decrease in pulse pressure. Add-on benidipine hydrochloride therapy in elderly hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus significantly decreases the LDL/HDL motility ratio and pulse pressure, and significantly increases preheparin LPL mass, in addition to improving blood pressure control. These findings suggest that combination therapy with benidipine hydrochloride and candesartan cilexetil may contribute to the suppression of arteriosclerosis and may be useful for elderly hypertensive patients with diabetes mellitus.