Differentiation of mild and severe stenosis with motion estimation in ultrasound images. Doppler ultrasound technique is now recognized as the best noninvasive screening test for carotid artery stenosis. Ultrasound does not calculate directly the degree of arterial narrowing, but relies on extrapolating the changes in blood flow parameters to an anatomical stenosis. This paper deals with the estimation of the stiffness indices of mild and severe stenosis of common carotid artery by motion estimation algorithm, focusing on their changes with the progression of atherosclerosis. 145 men with the mean age of 55 +/- 12 y who were healthy or had mild stenosis or severe stenosis were studied. For each ultrasound examination, matching longitudinal views of the common carotid artery were located, the frames were grabbed and processed with motion estimation algorithm and then diameter, cross-section changes and intima-media thickness of the right common carotid artery were estimated. The blood pressure was recorded in the right brachial artery using a semiautomatic device. The arterial diameter and cross-section changes and intima-media thickness were used together with the blood pressure measurements to estimate standard arterial stiffness indices. Relative diameter changes in carotid arteries with mild and severe stenosis were decreased by 22% to 48%, respectively, compared with healthy carotid artery. Systolic blood pressure in mild stenosis was approximately 4.4% lower and in severe stenosis was 2.0% higher compared with the healthy carotid. The stiffness indices were significantly different in the group of patients with severe stenosis (p-value < 0.05) compared with the healthy and mild stenosis subjects. It is concluded that, regarding the influence of atherosclerosis on the stiffness indices of right common carotid artery, we can differentiate mild and severe stenosis in carotid artery, through processing the sequential color Doppler ultrasound images by optical flow tracking algorithm.