The vascular history and physical examination. The value of the vascular examination cannot be over-estimated. Symptoms of vascular disease present in the foot and lower extremity may actually be manifestations of severe life-threatening disease. Symptoms, their location, and the frequency and quality of the patient's pain often provide valuable clues for the clinician's diagnosis. Central nervous system symptoms, ocular disturbances, cardiac symptoms, impotence, or constitutional disturbances may all indicate systemic arterial disease. Risk factors for this disease include smoking, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, genetic predisposition, diabetes, emotional stress, and physical inactivity. Those factors attributable to hypercoagulability and venous disease are birth control pill use, estrogen chemotherapy, obesity, prolonged immobilization, paralysis, previous thrombotic episodes, venous stasis disease, and varicose veins. An accurate bilateral assessment of blood pressure, pulses, and capillary perfusion is of critical importance. Careful inspection of the extremity for trophic changes, skin color, texture, temperature, edema, ulceration, atrophy, or paresis, will provide clues of vasculopathy. A relatively accurate assessment of circulatory status may be obtained without the use of exotic instruments. Simple tests such as the elevation and dependency tests, capillary bed return test, venous filling time test, along with blood pressure, pulse, and possibly oscillometry data are valuable in arterial evaluation. Such venous tests as inspection, percussion, Homan's sign, Trendelenburg, and Perthes' tourniquet are useful in the determination of the presence of venous disease. Fortunately, over the past few years tremendous advances have been made in the technology of the vascular laboratory. If symptoms are discovered during the vascular history and physical examination, the complete noninvasive study will provide impressive data to quantitate and specifically establish the diagnosis.