Endothelial dysfunction in scleroderma systematica: clinicopathogenetic correlations. To evaluate disturbances of vascular tonicity regulation in scleroderma systematica (SS) patients using laser Doppler flowmetry (LDF) with calculation of amplitude-frequency blood flow fluctuations (variability) basing on the mathematical model wavelet-transformation.The trial included 101 patients with verified SS aged 21-60 years (mean 52.3 years, 97 females). In addition, 15 and 10 patients with primary and secondary Raynaud syndrome diagnosed by ACR criteria, respectively, entered the trial. The control group consisted of 20 healthy subjects. Cardiovascular patients were not included in the study. Microcirculation was investigated with laser analyzer of capillary circulation in the tip of left hand finger III and external surface of the left arm. Endothelial motor function was studied in the tests with reactive hyperemia and nitroglycerin.SS patients were found to have a significantly higher variability and endothelial rhythm amplitude index in arm skin, reduced microcirculation, the variation index and high neurogenic tonicity in the hand finger tip. A direct correlation was found between severity and area of skin lesion (of the arm, in particular) and their amplitude of endothelial fluctuations (r = 0.38, p = 0.03) of circulation in the arm skin. Persistent correlations between skin count and LDF values were not registered. There was a significant regression of flow-dependent dilation of the brachial artery in SS patients independent of classic cardiovascular risk factors.SS patients have defects in regulation of vascular tonicity both in microcirculation and middle-caliber arteries. Vasomotor activity of the middle-caliber vessels is low in the absence of conventional cardiovascular disease risk factors. LDF detects changes in local regulation in cardiovascular patients confirming the role of neuroendothelial disorders in its pathogenesis. The trend to systemic DE in cardiovascular patients is associated with both disease-mediated vascular lesions (ulcers of finger tips, pulmonary hypertension) and cardiovascular disease markers.