Gene of platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1 expression profile in patients with acute coronary syndrome and in healthy subjects performed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells using quantitative QRT-PCR reaction. Cardiovascular diseases including myocardial infarction cause 50 percent of all deaths cases and range before cancer as the cause of death. The term 'ischemic heart disease' covers wide range of diseases including all ischemic conditions of myocardium. It's the most common reason (98%) is atherosclerosis, which causes a restriction or occlusion of a coronary artery lumen resulting in myocardial ischemia. Acute coronary syndromes are caused by the rupture of unstable atherosclerotic plaque resulting in clot formation which blocks the blood vessel. In this process an important role play adhesion molecules triggering adhesion, aggregation and the whole blood coagulation cascade.The aim of the study was to assess PECAM-1 gene expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients with acute coronary syndrome during first 24 hours of hospitalization in comparison with healthy individuals.There were 80 subjects included to the study divided into two groups. First group, consecutive patients admitted to the Department of Cardiology due to acute coronary syndrome and the second group, 20 healthy subjects. The total RNA was extracted from peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) using Chomczynski and Scchaci method. Transcription activity was assessed using commercially available TaqMan Gene Expression Assays. The PECAM-1 gene PCR reaction was preformed with ABI PRISM 7000 Sequence Detector (Applied Biosystems, USA).The comparison of PECAM-1 gene expression revealed statistically significant difference, between increased level of PECAM-1 in patients with acute coronary syndrome and it's lower level in healthy individuals.Observed in peripherial blood mononuclear cells increase of PECAM-1 protein gene expression may be responsible for increased adhesion and aggregation process and acute coronary syndrome occurrence.