Endovascular treatment of multilevel arteriosclerosis obliterans of lower extremities. To evaluate the clinical effect of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and PTA and stenting (PTAS) in treating multilevel arteriosclerosis obliterans (ASO) of lower extremities.Between January 2007 and October 2009, 29 cases of multilevel ASO of lower extremities were treated with PTA or PTAS. There were 17 males and 12 females with an average age of 71 years (range, 56-83 years). The clinical manifestations were limbs numb with cold sensation, intermittent claudication (< 100 m), and 19 patients had rest pain. According to Fontaine stages classification, there were 7 cases of stage II, 14 cases of stage III, and 8 cases of stage IV. Concomitant diseases included hyperlipidemia in 13 cases, diabetes in 6 cases, hypertension in 12 cases, chronic heart failure in 5 cases, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in 3 cases, cerebral infarction in 5 cases, and toe ulcer in 15 cases. The preoperative ankle/brachial index (ABI) was 0.28 +/- 0.13.In 3 cases of below knee lesions for the guide wire puncturing through the artery wall, 1 case gave up, and 2 cases continued recanalized other arteries without serious bleeding complications. After operation, cerebral infarction occurred in 1 case, pulmonary infection in 2 cases, and groin puncture site hematoma in 2 cases. All patients were followed up 3 to 36 months. Limb skin temperature was significantly improved, and intermittent claudication disappeared or claudication distance lengthened, rest pain disappeared or significantly reduced in 27 patients (30 limbs). The wound of amputee achieved good healing in 2 cases (2 limbs). In 27 patients undergoing endovascular treatment, the postoperative ABI was 0.72 +/- 0.19, showing significant difference when compared with the preoperative one (P < 0.05).The PTA and PTAS treatment for multilevel ASO of lower extremities is a safe and effective option, and the short-term effect is good. Different treatments should be chosen according to the location and length of vascular occlusion.