The value of power frequency spectrum analysis in the identification of aortoiliac artery disease. Prediction and localization of significant proximal occlusive disease in the lower extremities, whether in isolation or in combination with significant distal disease, still represent major problems to the noninvasive vascular laboratory. Power frequency spectrum analysis (PFSA) was done on continuous-wave Doppler signals in the common femoral artery of 86 limbs in 50 patients before and after postocclusive reactive hyperemia testing in an effort to differentiate hemodynamically significant from insignificant proximal occlusive disease, whether in isolation or in combination with hemodynamically significant distal disease. Limbs were assigned to four different categories according to their angiographic findings. With the use of a bandwidth at 50% peak amplitude (f50%) of 2000 Hz as the cut-off point between a positive and a negative examination, the test was 93% sensitive, 90% specific, and 92% accurate in distinguishing hemodynamically significant proximal lesions from hemodynamically insignificant lesions, regardless of distal disease. In addition, there exists a small group with significant disease at or close to the site of Doppler sampling, which produces f50% values of more than 3000 Hz. Diagnosis in this subgroup was much like that in carotid disorders. Finally, the predictive accuracy of standard noninvasive Doppler/segmental pressure measurement was compared with results of PFSA. In most patients, standard measurements were comparable however, in the subgroup with hemodynamically significant proximal and distal disease, the PFSA technique accurately predicted hemodynamically significant proximal diseases in 93% of patients, where combined pressure/Doppler testing had an accuracy of only 61%. In all, spectrum analysis of common femoral artery velocity signals can greatly aid in determining the presence or absence of significant proximal disease in all situations.