Cardiopulmonary effects of CPPV (continuous positive pressure ventilation) and IRV (inverse ratio ventilation) in experimental myocardial ischemia. Continuous positive pressure ventilation (CPPV) is an established therapy for treatment of acute respiratory failure (ARF). However, cardiac performance may be severely disturbed due to elevated intrathoracic pressure, inducing a decrease in cardiac output (CO) and oxygen delivery (DO2). Alternatively, mechanical ventilation with prolonged inspiratory to expiratory duration ratio (inversed ratio ventilation IRV) has been successfully used in ARF. No data are available about IRV in acute haemodynamic oedema. Thus, the cardiopulmonary effects of CPPV (positive end-expiratory pressure [PEEP] = 10 cm H2O) and IRV (inspiration to expiration duration ratio [I:E] = 3.0) were studied in nine dogs (body weight 29.9 +/- 4.3 kg) before and after induction of myocardial ischaemia. METHODS. Continuous intravenous anaesthesia and muscle paralysis were provided by 1.2 mg.kg-1 x h-1 piritramide and 0.08 mg.kg-1 x h-1 pancuronium, and the animals were ventilated with intermittent positive pressure ventilation (IPPV) as reference method. Cardiocirculatory performance was determined by means of heart rate (HR), mean arterial pressure (MAP), mean pulmonary arterial pressure (MPAP), central venous pressure (CVP), pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (PAOP) and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP). Cardiac output (CO) was determined by thermodilution method. Systemic vascular resistance (SVR) was calculated. Pulmonary function was assessed by arterial and mixed venous blood gas tension for oxygen (PaO2, PvO2) and carbon dioxide (PaCO2). Functional residual lung capacity (FRC) was measured by means of the foreign gas wash-in method using helium as inert gas, and determination of extravascular lung water (EVLW) using the thermal-dye indicator technique. CPPV and IRV were studied in random sequence in the control phase and 60 min after induction of acute left ventricular ischaemia, which was achieved by occlusion of the ramus interventricularis anterior. RESULTS. During the control phase CPPV induced an increase in MPAP (P < 0.05), CVP (P < 0.05) and PAOP (P < 0.05). HR and MAP remained unchanged, whereas CO decreased by 16% (P < 0.05). FRC was elevated by 25 ml.kg-1 (P < 0.01), but not EVLW (9.1 +/- 3.5 ml.kg-1). There was no improvement in oxygenation instead, oxygen delivery (DO2) decreased (P < 0.05). During inversed ratio ventilation MPAP, CVP, PAOP increased, but less than during CPPV. FRC was elevated mu 7.0 ml.kg-1 (P < 0.05), which was significantly less than during CPPV (P < 0.05). EVLW revealed no differences. During IPPV in the ischaemia phase cardiopulmonary performance deteriorated significantly. CO decreased by 19% (P < 0.05), whereas HR, MPAP, CVP and PAOP increased (P < 0.05). PaO2 was lower (P < 0.05) and alveolo-arterial PO2 gradient (PAaO2) increased (P < 0.05). All animals revealed moderate pulmonary oedema (EVLW = 15.1 +/- 8.4 ml.kg-1) (P < 0.01) and a lower FRC. Mechanical ventilation with PEEP significantly improved oxygenation and FRC