Diagnosis and management of duodenal injuries in children. Traumatic duodenal perforations in children pose a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. To identify specific diagnostic criteria and define an optimal therapeutic protocol, we reviewed all duodenal injuries treated at our institution in the past 10 years. There were 14 hematomas and 13 perforations. The diagnosis was confirmed by computed tomography (CT), ultrasound scan (US), upper gastrointestinal contrast studies (UGI), or at laparotomy. The clinical findings and CT findings of the two groups were compared. Children with suspected duodenal hematomas were treated expectantly, and children with duodenal perforations were treated surgically. Twenty-five associated injuries (10 pancreatic) occurred in 19 children. Children with perforations had higher injury severity scores (ISS) (25 v 9), but the two groups could not be differentiated based on presenting signs, symptoms, or laboratory findings. CT findings of retroperitoneal air or contrast were seen in 9 of 9 perforations and in 0 of 10 hematomas. CT findings of intraabdominal or retroperitoneal fluid, mesenteric enhancement, and thickened duodenal wall did not differentiate the two groups. Duodenojejunostomy was performed in one patient, and primary repair was performed in 11 children who had perforation. In five children, duodenostomy tube drainage with feeding jejunostomy or gastrojejunostomy were added. Complications occurred in three of four children in the first 5 years of the study and in two of nine children in the last 5 years. The decreased morbidity rate correlated with reduced time to definitive therapy (28 v 7.8 hours). Duodenal fistulae resulted in three of seven children treated without duodenostomy tube drainage and zero of five treated with drainage. Enteral feeds resumed faster (average, 12 v 27 days) if repair of perforation was combined with feeding jejunostomy or pyloric exclusion and gastrojejunostomy. Children with duodenal hematoma resumed eating an average of 16 days after injury. Only one child required surgery for persistent obstruction. The findings of retroperitoneal air and contrast extravasation on CT accurately distinguish duodenal perforation from hematoma. Conservative management of hematoma is safe and effective. Primary repair of perforation with duodenal drainage results in fewer postoperative complications, and gastrojejunostomy or feeding jejunostomy shorten the time to resumption of feeds.