Stromal tumors of the small intestine. Retrospective analysis of 9 cases surgically treated. The authors report on their experience with 9 patients with small bowel stromal tumours who underwent surgical treatment over the period 1974-2001. Seven were males and 2 females, with an average age of 63.1 years (range: 49-72 years). Histologically, 4 tumours showed evidence of differentiation towards smooth muscle elements (1 benign and 3 malignant), 4 towards neural elements (all malignant) and 1 lacked differentiation towards either cell type. Five tumours were located in the ileum, 3 in the jejunum and 1 in the duodenum. The main symptoms were abdominal pain and an abdominal mass, and the most sensitive diagnostic technique was abdominal CT scan. In the 8 jejunal or ileal stromal tumours we performed a typical intestinal resection, while undifferentiated duodenal stromal tumours were managed by pancreaticoduodenectomy. The diagnosis was only histological. There was no operative mortality, while 2 postoperative complications (1 pancreatic fistula and 1 myocardial infarction) occurred. The patient with jejunal benign muscular stromal tumour is still alive and in good health 73 months after the operation. Of the 3 patients with malignant muscular ileal stroma tumours, 1 is alive and free from disease 63 months after the operation, while the other 2 died of metastatic disease 39 and 29 months after surgery. Of the 4 patients with malignant neural stromal tumours (2 jejunal and 2 ileal) 1 with jejunal and 1 with ileal tumour were lost to follow-up, while 1 is still alive and in good health 101 months postoperatively the 4th patient, with jejunal disease, developed liver metastasis 14 months after small bowel resection and died 12 months later. The patient with undifferentiated duodenal stromal tumour died of liver metastases 38 months after pancreaticoduodenectomy. Small bowel stromal tumours are more often than not malignant. The most frequent symptoms are abdominal pain and a palpable mass, but no specific signs have been detected. Abdominal CT scan is the most sensitive diagnostic technique in the evaluation of the location, size, invasion of adjacent organs and metastases. The treatment must be intestinal resection, and prognostic prediction on the basis of histological findings is difficult.