Pancreatic endocrine tumors. Incidence of the endocrine tumors of the pancreas is about 4 to 10/1.000.000 peoples. We present 10 cases of endocrine pancreatic tumors which were operated in the First Surgical Clinic Iaşi in the last 20 years (1984-2003) these cases represent about 2.21% from all the pancreatic tumors (454 cases). It was 4 insulinoma, 2 gastrinoma, 2 gastrinoma associated with other endocrine neoplasia (Wermer syndrome) and 2 non-functioning endocrine pancreatic tumors. Female/men ratio was 9/1 and median age was about 41.9 yo (27-67 yo). In the four cases of insulinoma (all females) the diagnosis was delayed by two to five years due to misinterpretation of neurological symptoms generated by hypoglycemia. The diagnosis of insulinoma was based on Whipple triad, high plasma insulin levels associated with low plasma glucose levels, as well as the symptomatic relief after intravenous glucose injection. The surgical option was based on biological data, ultrasonography, computed tomography and arteriography. In two cases the localization of the insulinoma was established only by intraoperative ultrasonography. All tumors were localized in the tail of pancreas. In three cases we decided for a distal pancreatic resection with splenectomy and in one case for spleen preserving left pancreatectomy. Postoperative course was uneventful and all the symptoms disappeared. The diagnosis was confirmed on pathological examination in all cases. We also present two cases of gastrinoma with multiple ulcers and multiple surgical interventions for haemorrhage and perforation with peritonitis. Both patients died and diagnosis of pancreatic endocrine tumors was post-mortem. The two patients with Wermer syndrome also had ulcers complicated with haemorrhage and peritonitis and parathyroid adenoma. One case also had ante-hypophyseal and pituitary adenoma and the other had thyroid colloid hypertrophy. We performed left pancreatectomy with spleen preservation in one case and enucleation associated with total gastrectomy in the second case. The two cases of non-functioning pancreatic endocrine tumors had a non-specific symptoms. Diagnostic was established by abdominal ultrasound exam. We performed spleno-pancreatectomy in one case and pancreatectomy with spleen preservation in the other patient. Postoperative course was un-eventful.