Pancreatic tuberculosis: a clinical and imaging review of 32 cases. Tuberculosis of the pancreas is a rare entity, and anecdotal reports describing imaging features of pancreatic tuberculosis have been described in medical literature. The imaging features including computed tomography (CT) and ultrasonography in diagnosed cases of tubercular involvement of the pancreas are described, with an overview of clinical features and laboratory investigations.We analyzed records of 384 patients of diagnosed cases of abdominal tuberculosis for involvement of pancreas and detected 32 patients (8.33%) who had pancreatic involvement. This included 22 men and 10 women with an age range of 19 to 64 years (mean age of 42.5 years), who were detected to have pancreatic tuberculosis from 1999 to 2004 in our institute. We reviewed the clinical, radiologic (ultrasonographic and CT features), and laboratory findings of all patients. The criteria for diagnosis of tuberculosis were based on ascitic fluid adenosine deaminase level in 14 patients, fine-needle aspiration cytology of lymph nodes in 9 patients, and presence of pulmonary tuberculosis on chest radiograph, which was found in 9 patients. On follow-up, 6 months after antituberculous treatment, 25 patients showed response to anti-Koch's treatment, 3 patients had drug-resistant tuberculosis, 2 patients died, and 2 patients were lost to follow-up.The male/female ratio was 2.2:1. The maximum number of patients was in the fourth decade (30-39 years). The duration of symptoms was spanning between 2 and 11 months, with a mean duration of 6 months. The most common symptom was abdominal pain localized to the epigastrium. Sixteen patients were seropositive for HIV-1 infection. Fourteen patients had history of tuberculosis of the lungs, whereas 18 patients had pancreatic and peripancreatic involvement as the primary manifestation. Ultrasonography showed bulky inhomogenous pancreas in 5 patients solitary or multiple hypoechoic collections were observed in all 7 and 20 patients, respectively. CT findings demonstrated hypodense collections within the pancreas associated with peripancreatic lymphadenopathy in 29 patients. Three patients had a complex pancreatic mass lesion.Pancreatic tuberculosis can present with a variable spectrum of imaging findings. Tuberculosis of the pancreas should be considered as a diagnostic possibility in patients who present with a pancreatic space occupying lesion associated with peripancreatic lymphadenopathy.