Endoscopic ultrasound-guided ethanol ablation: an alternative option for the treatment of pancreatic insulinoma. Endoscopic ultrasound is the most accurate imaging modality for the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer, and endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle injection has already been used for palliative interventions. Surgical resection is currently the standard treatment for pancreatic insulinoma. Medical treatment may be necessary for symptomatic patients with unresectable disease. Case reports have been published about the success of endoscopic ultrasound-guided alcoholic ablation, but it has not been reported previously in Hungarian literature. The authors present the history of an 83-year-old woman who was evaluated because of repeated hypoglycemic coma occurring during the night. Endosonographic image and laboratory findings (elevated serum insulin and chromogranin A) revealed pancreatic insulinoma. Because of severe comorbidities and high risk of surgical resection, the decision was made to ablate the insulinoma by endoscopic ultrasound-guided alcohol injection. A total of 3 mL 95% ethanol was injected into the tumor. Despite the discontinuation of the diazoxide therapy the hypoglycemic episodes disappeared. This case history confirms that endoscopic ultrasound-guided alcoholic ablation is a novel, minimal invasive alternative treatment for patients with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors in whom surgery is not feasible.Az endoszkópos ultrahangvizsgálat a legérzékenyebb képalkotó eljárás a pancreastumorok diagnosztikájában, a finomtű-injekciós technikának köszönhetően lehetőséget ad a palliatív kezelésre is. A pancreasinsulinomák terápiájának arany standardja a sebészi reszekció, gyógyszeres kezelés csak inoperábilis esetekben jön szóba. Az endoszkópos ultrahangvezérelt alkoholos ablatio eredményességéről több esettanulmányban számoltak be, de mind ez idáig erre Magyarországon nem került sor. A szerzők egy 83 éves nőbeteg kórtörténetét ismertetik, akinél a hypoglykaemiás rosszullétek hátterében a laboratóriumi eredmények (emelkedett inzulin és kromogranin A) és az endoszkópos ultrahangkép alapján pancreasinsulinomát igazoltak. A beteg életkorára és súlyos társbetegségeire tekintettel műtéti beavatkozás nem jött szóba. Endoszkópos ultrahangvezérelt alkoholos ablatio mellett döntöttek, amely során összesen 3 ml 96%-os etanolt injektáltak a tumorszövetbe. A beavatkozás után a diazoxidterápia elhagyása ellenére a hypoglykaemiás rosszullétek nem ismétlődtek. A bemutatott eset azt bizonyítja, hogy minimálisan invazív jellege miatt az endoszkópos ultrahangvezérelt alkoholos ablatio az inoperábilis vagy a magas műtéti kockázatú pancreas neuroendokrin tumorok kezelésében új alternatívát jelenthet. Orv. Hetil., 2014, 155(41), 1647–1651.