Radiologic aspects of endoscopic sphincterotomy complications. Endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) is a minimally invasive technique which is the standard of reference in many clinical situations (e.g distal choledocolithiasis, recurrent lithiasis or bile duct stenosis). Complication are rare but are often misdiagnosed although radiological aspects are demonstrative. The purpose of this study is to illustrate the patterns of the complications. Ten patients have been treated for the last four years in our institution for ES complications. There were eight cases of pancreatitis, three of which had associated perforation, one arterioportal fistula, and one isolated perforation. Diagnosis was reached with CT in all but one case. Two patients have been successfully treated with percutaneous treatment (one embolization with Gianturco coils, and one drainage). Two patients died, one of necrotizing pancreatitis and the second of decubitus complication. The other patient were followed with CT. We give exemples of different observations and discuss their follow up. The severity and extent of post ES pancreatitis were readily assessed by CT and response to therapy monitored by serial examinations. Severity of disease, evaluated according to the length of hospitalization, correlated well with the presence and degree of pancreatic necrosis. CT also highlights perforations including minimal effusions. In our study differential diagnosis between post ES pancreatitis and perforation is not significant regarding the initial conservative therapy in both situations. CT scan helps us to opt for a surgical decision or for a percutaneous drainage. It also permits to follow the evolution of the lesions. In our cases involving perforations, we noted a spontaneous complete resolution of gas effusion on control and we also observed that pancreatitis evolution was similar to standard pancreatitis evolution. In a life threatening post ES hemobilia, not responding to standard medical treatment, angiography is the diagnostic exam of choice before embolization which is regarded as the best initial treatment of vascular lesions. We conclude that CT is the exam of choice in the initial diagnosis and follow up post ES complications.