Laparoscopic sonography of peripancreatic tumors: preliminary experience. This study was performed to evaluate the use of laparoscopic sonography in patients with suspected peripancreatic tumors and to assess the impact of laparoscopic sonography on patient management.In a prospective study, 24 patients with suspected pancreatic malignancy underwent CT, laparoscopy, and laparoscopic sonography. The pancreas, peripancreatic vasculature, liver, and porta hepatis were evaluated in each patient. Metastases (hepatic, peritoneal, or nodal), extrapancreatic extension of tumor, or vascular encasement was considered evidence of unresectable disease. Histopathology was the standard of reference unresectable disease was confirmed by biopsy. At the completion of the laparoscopic sonography, each examination was scored according to impact analysis categories that had been prospectively established.Peripancreatic vasculature was adequately shown by laparoscopic sonography in 22 patients (92%), of whom 12 patients had histopathologic evidence of vascular encasement. All 12 cases of vascular encasement were revealed by laparoscopic sonography, and 10 of 12 cases of vascular encasement were revealed by CT. Liver lesions were seen in eight patients (33%). One hemangioma was shown solely by laparoscopic sonography the other seven liver lesions were revealed by CT, laparoscopy, or both. In six patients (25%), laparoscopic sonography was used to guide biopsy of lesions that were not seen by laparoscopy. Impact analysis showed that laparoscopic sonography provided additional information in eight patients (33%) and altered management in four patients (17%). Of those patients for whom laparoscopic sonography altered management, three patients underwent successful resection after laparoscopic sonography two of these patients had suspected vascular encasement on CT but laparoscopic sonography revealed normal vessels, and the third patient had CT evidence of a liver lesion that was shown to be a cyst on laparoscopic sonography. A fourth patient was spared laparotomy when laparoscopic sonography revealed unsuspected vascular encasement.Preliminary experience suggests that laparoscopic sonography may aid diagnosis and alter management in patients with suspected pancreatic neoplasms.