Clinical study of chronic pancreatitis with focal irregular narrowing of the main pancreatic duct and mass formation: comparison with chronic pancreatitis showing diffuse irregular narrowing of the main pancreatic duct. Main pancreatic duct (MPD)-narrowed chronic pancreatitis (CP) may be an autoimmune abnormality. It also has been called autoimmune pancreatitis and sclerosing pancreatitis. It is unclear whether cases with focal pancreatographic changes are part of the same clinical entity as cases with diffuse MPD changes.We reviewed seven cases of chronic pancreatitis (CP) with focal narrowing of the main pancreatic duct (MPD), evidenced by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), and swelling of one or two segments of the pancreas, evidenced by ultrasonography (US) /computed tomography (CT), and indicated the clinicopathologic features of focal-type MPD-narrowed CP.The patient group comprised six men and one woman, and their age range was 28-75 years, with a mean of 63.7 years. Affected sites were in the head in two patients, the body in one patient, the tail in one patient, and the body and tail in three patients ERP showed narrowing in six patients and obstruction in one. Stricture of the lower portion of the common bile duct (CBD) that caused obstructive jaundice was shown by ERC in two cases in which the pancreas head was affected. In all six patients, a dynamic study by CT or MRI homogeneously showed delayed enhancement of involved segments of the pancreas. Serum levels of pancreatic enzyme were elevated in five patients, but only one subject had pancreatitis-like epigastric pain. Serological evidence suggestive of autoimmune abnormality was detected in only three patients with hypergammaglobulinemia (> or =2.0 g/dL) or positive titers of antinuclear antibody (ANAThese results indicate that CP with focal narrowing of the MPD is part of the same clinical spectrum as CP with diffuse narrowing of the MPD, and whether the distribution is diffuse or focal seems to be related to the stage or the extent of the disease. It is therefore important to recognize the possible existence of this focal variant to avoid unnecessary surgery.