Complete obstruction of the lower common bile duct caused by autoimmune pancreatitis: is biliary reconstruction really necessary? Recent observations suggest that an immune response is involved in the development of chronic pancreatitis. We report a case of autoimmune pancreatitis in a patient who showed complete obstruction of the lower common bile duct. A 63-year-old man was admitted to a local hospital, complaining of appetite loss and back pain. The patient had obstructive jaundice, and percutaneous transhepatic gallbladder drainage was performed. Fluorography through the biliary drainage catheter showed complete obstruction of the lower common bile duct. The patient had no history of alcohol consumption and no family history of pancreatic disease. Physical examination revealed an elastic hard mass palpable in the upper abdomen. Abdominal ultrasound and abdominal computed tomography (CT) scans showed enlargement of the pancreas head. While autoimmune pancreatitis was highly likely, due to the patient's high serum immunoglobulin level, the possibility of carcinoma of the pancreas and/or lower common bile duct could not be ruled out. Laparotomy was performed, and wedge biopsy samples from the pancreas head and body revealed severe chronic pancreatitis with infiltration of reactive lymphocytes, a finding which was compatible with autoimmune pancreatitis. Cholecystectomy and biliary reconstruction, using choledochojejunostomy, were performed, because the complete bile duct obstruction was considered to be irreversible, due to severe fibrosis. After the operation, prednisolone (30 mg/day) was given orally for 1 month, and the entire pancreas regressed to a normal size. Complete obstruction of the common bile duct caused by autoimmune pancreatitis has not been reported previously this phenomenon provides an insight into autoimmune pancreatitis and provokes a controversy regarding whether biliary reconstruction is needed for the treatment of complete biliary obstruction caused by autoimmune pancreatitis.