The role of echo-laparoscopy in abdominal surgery: five years' experience in a dedicated center. For more than 20 years intraoperative ultrasonography (IOUS) has been considered an important diagnostic tool in abdominal surgery. In the last few years, with the spread of laparoscopic surgery, echo-laparoscopy (LIOUS) has gradually replaced open ultrasonography, aiming to achieve similar results.LIOUS was performed using an ALOKA 5.500 device, provided with a linear flexible laparoscopic probe that was compatible with a 10-mm port. IOUS was performed by means of a linear side-view, T-shaped or microconvex probe. The probes were sterilized with hydrogen peroxide. No water bath was used during the surgical examination, but full contact of the probe with the surface of the involved organ was always attempted. From 2001 to 2005, 36 liver resections, 40 pancreas procedures, 203 procedures for suspected common bile duct calculi, 541 colon and 82 stomach resections, and 82 adrenal surgery procedures were performed. IOUS or LIOUS was performed in 432 patients (43.8%). All livers and pancreases underwent intraoperative ultrasound, while biliary, colonic, gastric, and adrenal pathologies were selectively studied when there were doubts about the location and extension of the disease.IOUS and LIOUS were valuable diagnostic procedures, supplying relevant clinical information in 65.1% of the patients and modifying the surgical approach in 17.2%. LIOUS was used instead of cholangiography to study bile ducts when lythiasis was suspected, achieving high diagnostic specificity (98%) and accuracy (100%). Surgical anatomy of the bile ducts was correctly identified by LIOUS in every case.In our experience IOUS and LIOUS were of the utmost importance in better defining staging of disease, infiltration of neighboring structures, number and size of nodular lesions, and anatomy of the hepatic pedicle and intrahepatic structures, thus making it possible to more accurately plan surgical procedures.