A case report--locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma was resected after chemotherapy. The case was a 36-year-old male whose chief complaints were anorexia and weight loss. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed circumferential stenosis in the fourth portion of the duodenum, while CT revealed a tumor with a diameter of 60 mm continuing as a single mass from the pancreatic body and tail to the fourth portion of the duodenum, and this was accompanied by findings that raised suspicions of circumferential invasion of the superior mesentric artery (SMA). Based on these results and biopsy, the patient was diagnosed with pancreatic and SMA invasion of duodenal cancer that was considered to be unresectable. After performing gastrojejunostomy, we administered DOC (40 mg/m2, day 1), CDDP (60 mg/m2, day 1), and S-1( 80 mg/m2, day 1-14) for 3 courses. The tumor response was PR and the images indicated the SMA invasion was disappeared. We judged that the tumor could be gone by a resection while preserving the SMA. In the surgical findings, the tumor continued as a single mass from the pancreatic body and tail to the third portion of the duodenum, and the surrounding area exhibited marked fibrosis. We performed a pancreatic tail resection along with combined resection of third and fourth portions of the duodenum, transverse colon and splenic flexure, and left adrenal gland. The case was diagnosed to be well-differentiated invasive ductal pancreatic cancer with duodenal invasion. Cancer invasion was not observed in any of the stripped surfaces surrounding the pancreas. The T3, N1, M0, fStage III antitumor effects were mildly effective. In this case, the treatment was initially started by considering the case as one of duodenal cancer, but the final results of a pathological diagnosis revealed that it was pancreatic cancer. However, either way, even though the case was unresectable before the chemotherapy performed for duodenal cancer was significantly effective for the pancreatic cancer. Therefore, a resection became possible, and an R0 resection was also effective.