A case of small intestinal stage IV gastrointestinal stromal tumor in which long-term disease control was maintained for more than 10 Years through a multidisciplinary team approach. The prognosis of metastatic or recurrent gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) accompanied by multiple hepatic metastases and peritoneal dissemination is very poor. We encountered a case of stage IV small intestinal GIST with multiple hepatic metastases and peritoneal dissemination that were observed after resection of the primary lesion. Multidisciplinary treatments were performed over time, including hepatic resection, radiotherapy, imatinib therapy, sunitinib therapy, and transcatheter arterial chemoembolization, and the disease had been brought under control following resection of a primary lesion 14 years ago. The patient was a 49-year-old woman diagnosed with hemorrhagic stool in July 1998, when a computed tomography scan revealed an 8-cm-diameter tumor in her small bowel. Partial resection of her small bowel was performed and the pathological diagnosis was a high-risk GIST showing 15 mitoses per 50 high power fields. Several metastases developed in the S4 and S5 segments of the patient's liver 3 years after resection of the primary lesion, and a central two-segmental resection of the liver was performed. Furthermore, 1 year after this procedure, peritoneal dissemination developed near the pancreas, for which radiotherapy was performed. Four months later, the patient again developed multiple liver metastases and was started on treatment with 400 mg imatinib per day, achieving a partial response(PR). Five years and 6 months after imatinib initiation, resistance emerged in one of the liver metastases. The patient was switched to sunitinib(50 mg per day), but was diagnosed with progressive disease at the end of the second course and the procedure was discontinued. Treatment with 400 mg of imatinib per day was resumed, and transcatheter arterial chemoembolization was performed twice over a 17-month period for the resistant hepatic region and a PR was achieved each time. We were able to maintain a PR in this patient other metastases indicated the effectiveness of imatinib therapy. Therefore, a multidisciplinary team approach can be effective in achieving long-term disease control in patients with metastatic or recurrent GIST.