Application of NMR-CT in the staging of cancer of the digestive organs. To assess the potential of NMR-CT for demonstrating cancer of the digestive organs, we examined a total of 232 patients (89 with esophageal cancer, 52 with liver cancer, 40 with colorectal cancer, 9 with pancreatic cancer, 9 with gastric cancer, and 33 with other diseases). NMR-CT has many features, but we use especially those features which it is possible to select not only in the transverse plane but also in the coronal and sagittal planes, and it has excellent soft tissue contrast resolution. Our machine is a Picker International NMR-CT using a superconducting magnet of 0.256 tesla. Diagnosis of lymph node involvement of esophageal cancer. Using only the coronal plane, each patient was scanned by the spin echo technique (TE = 40, TR = 400) from the plane of the descending aorta to the plane of the trachea 1 cm in thickness, at 1 cm intervals, continuously. All the vessels were clearly differentiated as no-signal regions, especially in coronal images, from areas of carcinomatous involvement. Lymph nodes were identified as intense grey masses in fat tissue of high intensity. Twenty cases were proved by surgery or autopsy, and it was possible to assess 160 lymph-node groups. A total of 25 patients were imaged as having positive lymph nodes, but 17 of them had metastasis-positive nodes. In other 135 nodes imaged as negative lymph nodes, only two had metastasis and 133 were negative for metastasis. Overall accuracy was 93.8%. Diagnosis of liver cancer. Intrahepatic vessels were clearly imaged without using contrast enhancement in NMR-CT, so it was easy to diagnose the segment containing the tumor and to detect tumor emboli in the portal vein. The capsule was imaged in 84% (16/19) using IR techniques, although only 37% (7/19) could be imaged by X-CT. Diagnosis of colorectal cancer. Using the sagittal plane, the sacrum, urinary bladder and other organs were imaged better parallel to their axis, so that the relationship between rectal cancer and surrounding organs could be clearly visualised with NMR-CT. With regard to lymphatic metastasis, coronal imaging was useful for picturing mesenteric and pelvic vessels, so that lymph nodes were imaged as low-intensity masses along the vessels. Lymph metastasis almost 1 cm size can be detected using coronal NMR-CT.