A case of Sjögren's syndrome and systemic sclerosis complicated with acute pancreatitis. We report a case of Sjögren's syndrome (SS) and systemic sclerosis (SSc) complicated with acute pancreatitis. A 51-year-old woman had been diagnosed as SS in 1973. She noticed Raynaud's phenomenon in 1977. In 1988, interstitial pneumonia (IP) was pointed out and she was treated with methylprednisolone (mPSL) pulse therapy. Prednisolone (PSL) was gradually tapered to 3-5 mg daily and she visited our outpatient clinic in 1995. On her first admission to our hospital in 1996, she showed xerostomia, keratoconjunctivitis sicca, sclerotic skin changes of her distal extremities and face, thickening of her sublinguinal frenulum, and regurgitative esophagitis. She was positive with anti-SS-A and SS-B antibodies. She was diagnosed as SS and SSc. Radiographic and laboratory data also established the diagnosis of inactive IP, renal tubular acidosis (RTA) and chronic renal failure (CRF). In April 30th 1997, she was admitted to our hospital again with complaints of dyspnea, dysesthesia, epigastralgia and petechia. Active IP and mononeuritis multiplex were diagnosed, and petechia was considered to be associated with vasculopathy. Her serum amylase level was 891 mU/ml on admission and spontaneously increased to 2440 mU/ml on May 12th along with increase of fibrinogen degradation product, D-dimer and alpha 2 plasmin-plasmin inhibitor complex levels. Ultrasonography depicted swelling of her pancreatic head and the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis was made. She was treated with protease inhibitors and intravenous hyperalimentation for acute pancreatitis. mPSL pulse therapy (500 mg/day for 3 days) was instituted for IP and mononeuritis multiplex on May 22, followed by 50 mg of daily PSL. While IP and mononeuritis multiplex gradually improved by the high-dose steroid therapy, serum amylase level raised to more than 4293 mU/ml, suggesting the modification of pancreatitis by the treatment with steroid. Since she did not respond to the conservative therapy for acute pancreatitis, she was treated with plasmapheresis, which turned out to be very effective. However, she was suffered from fungal pneumonia and died of respiratory failure. As far as we know, only three cases of SS with acute pancreatitis have been reported so far. The immunopathological mechanisms of development of acute pancreatitis in our case, especially focusing on the significance of microvasculopathy and hypercoagulability, were discussed.