In vivo characterization of developing chronic pancreatitis in rats. Despite numerous experimental and clinical investigations, there is no unifying concept on pathophysiology and pathogenesis of chronic pancreatitis. Defining the interplay between pancreatic microcirculation and parenchymal tissue, we will provide a basis for the better understanding of pancreatic fibrogenesis using in vivo high-resolution multifluorescence microscopy in dibutyltin chloride (DBTC)-exposed rats. Pancreatic microcirculation at days 3 and 7 after DBTC revealed leukocyte activation with a two-fold higher fraction of rolling cells and a nine- to 10-fold increase of cells firmly adherent to the endothelial lining, followed by subsequent transendothelial migration into tissue, as given by chloracetate esterase histology. In vivo staining of acinar tissue with bisbenzimide presented single cells exhibiting nuclear chromatin condensation and fragmentation. Apoptotic cell death was confirmed by immunohistochemical staining for active caspase-3 as well as by TUNEL analysis. Necrotic cells were found dispersed throughout the exocrine tissue under observation. Both modes of cell death were found highest in extent at days 3 and 7 with 15-20 cells/mm2, but progressively decreased below 10 cells/mm2 up to 28 days after DBTC. By means of in vivo microscopy yellow-green autofluorescent collagen deposits were found at day 7 and progressively increased up to approximately 12% at day 28 after DBTC. Concomitantly, density of capillaries progressively decreased and capillaries failing to conduct blood flow became apparent. Present on-line analysis indicates an early inflammatory response with acinar cell death, most probably triggering progression of disease with collagen deposition, capillary rarefication and manifestation of perfusion failure. These temporal and spatial multiparameter measurements of the in vivo microenvironment provide new insights into the pathological processes of pancreatic fibrogenesis.