The effect of intraperitoneally administered necrolytic enzymes on the course of experimental acute pancreatitis. The acute pancreatitis is still serious diagnostic and therapeutic problem. In spite of many experiments there are no satisfactory methods of the treatment of this disease. Usually, it is diagnosed clinically by acute abdominal pain and increased pancreatic enzymes in blood and urine. The main disorder of this disease is the necrosis of the pancreatic gland. The aim of our investigations was the evaluation of effect of necrolytic enzymes on the course of acute experimental pancreatitis. Fibrolan was used. Fibrolan (Parke-Davis) is a preparation, which has necrolytic properties. It consists of two bovine enzymes: fibrinolysin and deoxyribonuclease. The examinations were carried out on 380 Wistar rats. The acute pancreatitis was induced by retrograde injection of 0.1 ml/0.1 kg body weight of 3% sodium taurocholate solution into the pancreatic duct as previously described by other authors. The experimental animals were divided into four groups: K0-control group (healthy animals), KP-animals with acute experimental pancreatitis without medication, S-rats with acute experimental pancreatitis, which were treated with 0.9% NaCl solution, and F-animals with acute experimental pancreatitis treated with Fibrolan. Fibrolan and 0.9% NaCl were injected into the peritoneal cavity three times a day with eight hours intervals from the 24th experimental hour. The serum amylase and lipase activities and the amylase activity in the urine were determined in each animal group in the 24th, 48th, 72nd, 96th, 120th, 144th experimental hour. For histopathological analysis pancreatic tissue samples were taken from the pancreatic gland. The intensification of the histological changes of these tissue samples was judged using a point score as described by Spormann et al. The results were statistically analysed. The animals of the KP group showed significant histological changes of the pancreas during the whole examination time. Point score: 75-100. Microscopically, tissue samples taken from the animals treated with Fibrolan showed less changes from the 72nd examination hour. There were observed regenerative processes and the improvement of the histological state was evident (point score: 0-50). Changes were less in rats treated with 0.9% NaCl solution than in KP group but the regenerative processes were slower than in F group (point score: 50-75). Enzymes levels were significant lower in F group than in others from the 48th experimental hour.