Effect of a specific synthetic inhibitor of neutrophil elastase (ONO-5046) on the course of acute hemorrhagic pancreatitis in dogs. In acute pancreatitis, particularly in severe cases, polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN) elastase induces tissue damage in remote organs such as the lung, as well in the pancreas itself. Therefore, we examined the therapeutic effect of a specific synthetic inhibitor of PMN elastase (ONO-5046: Ono Pharmaceuticals, Osaka, Japan) on the lung, liver, and kidney, as well as pancreas, in severe hemorrhagic pancreatitis in dogs. Acute hemorrhagic pancreatitis was induced by the injection of a mixture of autologous bile and porcine trypsin into the main pancreatic duct. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was administered intravenously as a septic challenge. Two animal groups were used. In one group, continuous infusion of ONO-5046 was started prior to the injection of LPS (ONO group). In the other group (control), saline was infused instead. At the end of the experiment (330 min after the injection of bile and trypsin), the pancreas revealed severe hemorrhagic pancreatitis, and a large amount of bloody ascites had accumulated in the peritoneal cavity. The white blood cell count was markedly reduced in response to the induction of pancreatitis, and was decreased further by the septic attack, irrespective of the administration of ONO-5046, although the count increased again in the ONO group. Serum levels of amylase and alpha2-macroglobulin-trypsin complex increased similarly in both groups following administration of bile and trypsin. Serum Ca levels decreased in both groups. At the end of the experiment, the wet weight of the lung was slightly higher in the control group (without ONO-5046). Microscopically, the pancreas showed severe hemorrhage accompanied by extensive interstitial edema in both groups. The lung and liver demonstrated mild infiltration of inflammatory cells in the interstitium in both groups, although the inflammatory change in the liver was slightly milder in the ONO group. These findings indicate that severe hemorrhagic pancreatitis cannot be alleviated by the administration of a specific inhibitor of PMN elastase alone, although this may lessen damage to remote organs such as the liver and lung. The white blood cell count decreased markedly after the induction of acute pancreatitis, and much more after a septic challenge. This seems to be closely related to the accumulation of bloody ascites in the peritoneal cavity.