A panel of immunohistochemical stains, including carcinoembryonic antigen, vimentin, and estrogen receptor, aids the distinction between primary endometrial and endocervical adenocarcinomas. The histological distinction between a primary endometrial and a primary endocervical adenocarcinoma is often difficult, especially in small biopsy specimens. A preoperative distinction is important because primary surgical management differs between the two tumors. Cases of primary endometrioid endometrial (n=30) and primary endocervical (n=26) adenocarcinoma of endocervical type were stained immunohistochemically with the monoclonal antibodies against carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), vimentin, estrogen receptor (ER), and 34 beta E12. In all cases the origin of the adenocarcinoma was confirmed by examination of the definitive pathology specimen. There was diffuse positive nuclear staining for ER in 28 of 30 (93%) endometrial adenocarcinomas. ER was negative in 16 of 26 endocervical adenocarcinomas, and there was focal weak nuclear staining in the other cases. Vimentin was positive in 29 of 30 (97%) endometrial adenocarcinomas but in only 2 of 26 (8%) endocervical adenocarcinomas. CEA was positive in 25 of 26 (96%) endocervical adenocarcinomas, mostly with diffuse membranous and cytoplasmic staining. Positivity with CEA was present in 21 of 30 (70%) endometrial adenocarcinomas but was largely confined to squamoid areas with only 12 tumors exhibiting focal membranous staining of the glandular component. 34 beta E12 was diffusely positive in all except one cervical adenocarcinoma. In endometrial carcinomas, positivity was strongest in squamoid areas but there was positive staining, either focally or diffusely, of the glandular component in 27 cases. In summary, primary endometrioid endometrial adenocarcinomas are characterized by diffuse, strong, positive staining for vimentin and ER and negative or very focal, positive staining of the glandular component for CEA. In contrast, primary endocervical adenocarcinomas are characterized by CEA positivity, which is usually but not always diffuse, negativity for vimentin, and negativity or focal weak positivity for ER. 34 beta E12 is of no value in the distinction between endometrial and endocervical adenocarcinomas. A panel of immunohistochemical stains, comprising CEA, vimentin, and ER, generally allows confident preoperative distinction between a primary endometrial and endocervical adenocarcinoma.