Fine needle aspiration of unilocular ovarian cysts--a cytohistological correlation. To assess the diagnostic efficacy of Fine Needle Aspiration Cytology in differentiating neoplastic and non-neoplastic dysfunctional ovarian cysts--cytological findings to be verified with histology of excised cyst.In this prospective study fifty-three cases with unilocular nonseptate ovarian cystic masses,detected on ultrasound examination were subjected to ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration of the cyst contents at Department of Pathology, Allama Iqbal Medical College Lahore, from January 1999 - January 2000. Aspirated fluid was examined cytologicaly using Giemsa stain on the smears prepared from centrifuged deposit. The same cyst removed surgically was examined histologicaly and cytohistological correlation was carried out.In this series of 53 cases, histologically confirmed break up of various types of cysts was follicular cysts (n=25), leuteal cysts (n=6), serous cysts (n=15), mucous cysts (N=4) and Endometriotic cysts (n=3). Non-diagnostic fine needle aspirate was obtained in 19/53 cases, majority being the follicular cysts. The cytohistological correlation revealed no false positive but 40% false negative results for follicular cysts on cytological examination of the aspirate. Hence the specificity and sensitivity for cytological diagnosis of follicular cyst was 100% and 60% respectively. For leuteal cysts, false positive and false negative results on cytological examination were 0% and 16.6% respectively with a specificity and sensitivity value of 100% and 83% respectively. For neoplastic serous cysts cytologically false positive and false negative diagnosis was 0% and 46.6% respectively with specificity and sensitivity of 100% and 53%. For mucinous cystadenomas sensitivity and specificity of cytological diagnosis was 100%. For endometriotic cysts a sensitivity of 67% and specificity of 100% was procured with cytological evaluation.Guided fine needle aspiration cytology may prove to be one of the most valuable and acceptable tools in the differential diagnosis of ovarian cystic lesions.