Combined usage of duphaston and reaferon for infertility treatment in patients with endometriosis. A new method of treatment of endometriosis includes combination of surgical and hormonal therapy. Surgical method included excision of tissue with endometriosis, while the hormonal therapy involved the combination of dufaston and reaferon-EC (recombinant interferon alpha 2b). The aim of this study was to develop effective method of treatment of infertility caused by endometriosis using combination of dufaston and reaferon. There were 114 patients under observation who suffered from endometriosis and infertility. At the first stage of treatment thermokouterisation of area with endometrosis has been used. At the second stage of treatment all patients were divided into different clinical groups. To 34 patients from the study group reaferom-EC has been administered on the 5th, 8th, 10th, 12th, 14th days of menstrual cycle. The control group was represented by 80 patients, which was divided into two subgroups, 40 patients in each group. The patients from the first subgroup got hormonal therapy 20 mg dufaston from the 5th to 25th days of menstrual cycle, while the patients from the second subgroup got 20 mg dufaston from the 15th-20th to 25th days. The treatment was successful among the patients who got the combination of reaferon and dufaston, the frequency of pregnancy in the study group reached 52% vs. 27.3% in the control group (p>0.05). Those patients who had so called "small form" of endometriosis became pregnant in 34% cases in the study group and in 22.7% cases in the control group. Patients who had endometriosal cystoma became pregnant in 18.7% in the study group, but only in 9.4% in the test group, which shows that the treatment is less effective among these categories of patients. As a result of our study it is proved that the method of combination of reaferon and dufaston gives a chance to increase therapeutic effect and the number of pregnancy among the patients with endometriosis.