Pain profile of women with endometriosis and chronic pelvic pain-determining factors and significance. To determine the severity of the separate components of chronic pelvic pain syndrome/dysmenorrhoea, dyspareunia, dysuria, dyschezia ,etc/ in the different stages of the disease and according to the localization of endometriotic lesions. To determine to what extent the severity of the separate chronic pain components correlates with stage of the disease and localization of endometriomas.The study was conducted in the Clinic of Gynaecology at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Medical University-Pleven in the period 01.03.2004 - 01.02.2006 Sixty-six patients were included in the study. They were consecutively admitted in the Clinic for diagnostic specification or operative treatment, and in whom E was suspected or proved before. The patients were grouped according their age, fertility, type of the disease - internal or external genital endometriosis, adenomyosis, stage of the disease, localization of endometriotic lesions. The following methods were used for the purpose of the study: visual analogue scale, documentary method, R-AFS classification of E, inquiry method-by a questionnaire /form/, based on instruments for pain assessment, which are accepted worldwide.The obtained results were statistically processed and were presented by the means of tables, graphics and numerical quantities. When the mean value of pain assessment was reported, there was noted a non-correspondence between severity of pain and stage of the disease. It was found no significant correlation between the extent of manifestation of the separate components of the pain syndrome according to the stage of the disease. The severity of the separate components of the pain syndrome was determined according to the localization of the E-lesions. Statistically significant correlation was found between the extent of manifestation of dyspareunia, postcoital ache and dyschezia, and the localization of the E- lesions /p<0,05/ and that correlation was strongly supported in cases of adenomyosis and the components mentioned above. Statistically significant differences were found between the extent of manifestation of the relevant component of the chronic pain syndrome and some of the localization of E foci.It was established a correlation between localization of E lesions and the severity of the separate components of the chronic pain syndrome. No correlation was found between the extent of pain manifestation, when assessed in total and in each pain component, and the stage of endometriosis.