Novel molecular profiles of endometrial cancer-new light through old windows. Endometrial carcinoma (EC) is the most common gynecological malignancy in the western world. A widely accepted dualistic model, which has been established on a morphological basis, differentiates EC into two broad categories: Type I oestrogen-dependent adenocarcinoma with an endometrioid morphology and Type II non-oestrogen-dependent EC with a serous papillary or clear cell morphology. Molecular genetic evidence indicates that endometrial carcinoma, as described in other malignancies, likely develops as the result of a stepwise accumulation of alterations in cellular regulatory pathways, such as oncogene activation and tumor suppressor gene inactivation, which lead to dysfunctional cell growth. These molecular alterations appear to be specific in Type I and Type II cancers. In type I endometrioid endometrial cancer, PTEN gene silencing in conjunction with defects in DNA mismatch repair genes, as evidenced by the microsatellite instability phenotype, or mutations in the K-ras and/or beta-catenin genes, are recognized major alterations, which define the progression of the normal endometrium to hyperplasia, to endometrial intraepithelial neoplasia, and then on to carcinoma. In contrast, Type II cancers show mutations of TP53 and Her-2/neu and seem to arise from a background of atrophic endometrium. Nevertheless, despite the great effort made to establish a molecularly-based histological classification, the following issues must still be clarified: what triggers the tumor cells to invade the myometrium and what causes vascular or lymphatic dissemination, finally culminating in metastasis? RUNX1, a transcription factor, was recently identified as one of the most highly over-expressed genes in a microarray study of invasive endometrial carcinoma. Another candidate gene, which may be associated with an initial switch to myometrial infiltration, is the transcription factor ETV5/ERM. These studies, as well as those conducted for other genes possibly involved in the mitotic checkpoint as a major mechanism of carcinogenesis in non-endometrioid endometrial cancer, could help in understanding the differences in the biology and the clinical outcome among histological types.