Potential applications of electrical impedance techniques in female mammalian reproduction. The measurement of electrical impedance is one of many methods that can be used for monitoring various reproductive events in female mammals. This paper summarizes the key findings in this research area that have been achieved during the past four decades. The electrical impedance in the vagina, vaginal vestibule and vulva during the estrous/menstrual cycle shows significant changes that vary among these reproductive organs, different locations in these organs and mammalian species. The changes of vaginal and vulvar impedance during periestrus are temporarily associated with the preovulatory luteinizing hormone (LH) peak and are significantly correlated with systemic levels of estradiol and progesterone. In humans, significant impedance changes during the menstrual cycle and their close association with the LH peak and ovulation have been found not only in the vagina, but also in the tongue. Findings of a number of studies suggest the possibility of using vaginal, vestibular and vulvar impedance to predict and confirm the fertile period of the estrous/menstrual cycle. There is some evidence that vulvar and cervical impedance may be a reliable indicator of impending parturition. Results in several studies also indicate the possibility of using electrical impedance methods to confirm the existence of ovarian follicular cysts, endometriosis and cervical neoplasia. However, physical and biological factors that may affect the impedance variation in the female reproductive system and tongue are still poorly understood. Their detection allows us to improve our ability to predict more precisely various reproductive processes by impedance techniques. This review also provides some considerations about the origin of impedance changes in the female reproductive system and tongue that may be useful for the systematic development of impedance methods in the field of female mammalian reproduction.