Elevated blood plasma antioxidant status is favourable for achieving IVF/ICSI pregnancy. The aim of the study was to determine the roles of intrafollicular and systemic oxidative stress and antioxidant response in ovarian stimulation and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) outcomes. For this purpose, 102 ICSI patients undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation were enrolled and samples were collected on the day of follicle puncture. Total peroxide (TPX) concentrations and total antioxidant response (TAR) were measured in follicular fluid and blood plasma, and an oxidative stress index (OSI) was calculated based on these two parameters. Urinary concentrations of 8-iso-prostaglandin F2a (F2IsoP) were measured. Elevated intrafollicular oxidative stress was positively correlated with ovarian stimulation outcome: less FSH per retrieved oocyte was used, more oocytes were collected and higher serum oestradiol concentrations were measured in patients with higher follicular OSI. However, high urinary F2IsoP related to lower embryo quality and F2IsoP was also elevated in smoking patients. Patients with endometriosis had lower follicular antioxidant status. Most importantly, higher systemic blood TAR was significantly favourable for achieving clinical pregnancy (P=0.03). In conclusion, the findings suggest clear associations between oxidative stress, antioxidant status and several aspects of ovarian stimulation and IVF/ICSI outcome, including pregnancy rate. Several oxygen-dependent biochemical reactions produce reactive oxygen species as by-products that may eventually lead to oxidative stress, which is detrimental to cells and tissues. Total antioxidant status, on the other hand, comprises several agents that balance the excess of these reactive oxygen species and reduce potential damage to the body. The aim of the current work was to study this balance in 102 patients participating in an ICSI programme and to examine the degree to which total peroxide content and antioxidant status influence infertility and pregnancy outcome. During the study, several tests were performed to characterize oxidative stress levels in ovarian follicular fluid, blood plasma and urine. We found a significantly higher oxidative stress environment in the ovary when compared with blood plasma. This suggests a prominent role of oxidative stress in the ovaries of these patients. The elevated oxidative stress levels were correlated to a higher number of oocytes that could be obtained via the procedure and to a lower amount of FSH needed to mature the oocytes, suggesting that oxidative stress, to some degree, is favourable for hormone stimulation outcome. A high level of lipid peroxidation products in the urine, another marker of oxidative stress, was observed in smokers and this marker was elevated in patients with embryos that had lower developmental potential. A higher overall antioxidant status in blood plasma was advantageous for achieving pregnancy.