Histotype-genotype correlation in 36 high-grade endometrial carcinomas. Endometrioid, serous, and clear cell carcinomas are the major types of endometrial carcinoma. Histologic distinction between these different tumor types can be difficult in high-grade cases, in which significant interobserver diagnostic disagreement exists. Endometrioid and clear cell carcinomas frequently harbor ARID1A and/or PTEN mutations. Serous carcinoma acquires TP53 mutations/inactivation at onset, with a significant subset harboring an additional mutation in PPP2R1A. This study examines the correlation between tumor histotype and genotype in 36 previously genotyped high-grade endometrial carcinomas. This included 23 endometrioid/clear cell genotype and 13 serous genotype tumors. Eight subspecialty pathologists reviewed representative online slides and rendered diagnoses before and after receiving p53, p16, and estrogen receptor immunostaining results. κ statistics for histotype-genotype concordance were calculated. The average κ values for histotype-genotype concordance was 0.55 (range, 0.30 to 0.67) on the basis of morphologic evaluation alone and it improved to 0.68 (range, 0.54 to 0.81) after immunophenotype consideration (P<0.001). Genotype-incompatible diagnoses were rendered by at least 2 pathologists in 12 of 36 cases (33%) (3 cases by 2/8 pathologists, 2 by 3/8, 2 by 4/8, 3 by 6/8, 1 by 7/8, and 1 case by 8/8 pathologists). Six of the 12 were endometrioid/clear cell genotype tumors, and the other 6 were serous genotype tumors. The histopathologic features associated with histotype-genotype-discordant cases were reviewed, and specific diagnostic recommendations were made to improve concordance. This study found that although the majority of morphologic diagnoses are genotype concordant, genotype-incompatible diagnoses are made in a significant subset of cases. Judicious use and interpretation of p53 immunohistochemistry in selected scenarios can improve histotype-genotype concordance. 