The effect of gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist on type I collagen C-telopeptide and N-telopeptide: the predictive value of biochemical markers of bone turnover. To evaluate the clinical utility of recently developed biochemical markers in the assessment of bone metabolism during GnRH agonist (GnRHa) treatment, we compared five bone resorption markers [C-telopeptide (CTX) and N-telopeptide (NTX) of type I collagen, hydroxyproline (Hpr), pyridinoline (Pyr), and deoxypyridinoline (Dpyr)] and two bone formation markers [total alkaline phosphatase (Alp) and osteocalcin (OC)]. Sixty-eight normally menstruating women were injected with a long-acting GnRHa once a month for 24 weeks for the treatment of endometriosis or leiomyoma. The mean percentage bone loss at the lumbar spine was 3.79% at the end of treatment. Although levels of all markers increased significantly as the treatment progressed, CTX and NTX exhibited the highest correlation coefficients between bone loss at 24 weeks and the seven markers measured at 0, 4, 12, 16, and 24 weeks of treatment. Serum estradiol levels were similarly suppressed during the treatment in both fast losers (whose bone loss was more than the mean) and slow losers (whose bone loss was less than the mean). However, significantly higher z-scores of bone resorption markers, but not of bone formation markers, were observed in the fast losers at 24 weeks of treatment, suggesting a more accelerated bone resorption in this group. Whereas the three highest z-scores at 24 weeks of treatment were CTX, NTX, and Dpyr (in that order), the highest z-score (P < 0.05) was observed for CTX in the fast losers. The subjects in the highest quartile of CTX, the highest, and second highest quartiles of NTX at 24 weeks of treatment experienced 2.1, 2.2, and 1.7 times more bone loss (P < 0.001), respectively, than those in the lowest quartiles. Furthermore, the subjects in the highest quartile of both CTX and NTX experienced 3.6 times more bone loss (P < 0.001) than those in the lowest quartile of both markers. These results indicate that both CTX and NTX are useful and sensitive markers for bone resorption in a hypoestrogenic state induced by GnRHa.