Expression of cyclin A in endometrial adenocarcinoma and its correlation with proliferative activity and clinicopathological variables. Cyclin A is known as an S- and G2-M phase regulatory protein and its abnormal expression has been reportedly implicated in cellular proliferation. This study was designed to investigate the correlation of cyclin A expression with tumorigenesis of the endometrium and clinicopathological variables.Immunohistochemical staining using labeled streptavidin-biotin complex was performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue of normal endometrium (15 cases), endometrial hyperplasia (23 cases), and endometrial adenocarcinoma (endometrioid type) (112 cases).Immunohistochemistry showed that the nuclei of the cells were positive for cyclin A. In normal endometrium, only proliferative phase was focally positive for cyclin A. Cyclin A was also positive for endometrial hyperplasia. Its expression in hyperplasia was significantly more frequent than that of proliferative phase and less than that of endometrioid adenocarcinoma. The labeling index (LI) of cyclin A in endometrioid adenocarcinoma was 16.3+/-6.9 in well-differentiated, 18.3+/-8.8 in moderately differentiated, and 30.2+/-11.8 in poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, respectively. Cyclin A expression increased significantly more in high histological grades. The area of squamous metaplasia in endometrioid adenocarcinoma was negative for cyclin A. The LI of cyclin A was positively correlated with that of Ki-67 and cyclin-dependent kinase 2. Cyclin A expression was significantly associated with carcinoma without coexisting endometrial hyperplasia and lymphovascular space involvement (LVSI), but not with FIGO stage, myometrial invasion, lymph node metastasis, estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and menopause as well as recurrence.Cyclin A expression was involved in the progression to malignancy of the endometrium and was correlated with proliferative activity and prognostic features including histological grade, without coexisting endometrial hyperplasia and LVSI.