How to choose an oral contraceptive in 1984. The choice of currently available oral contraceptives (OCs) includes combined formulations in varying dosages and monophaic, biphasic, or triphasic form, sequential pills, synthetic progestin-only pills in macro or microdose, and injectable synthetic progestins.  Before the advent of microdose pills, products were characterized by progestin or estrogen dominance.  Rumors that microdose pills do not completely inhibit ovulation have hindered their acceptance in France, but research has shown that they inhibit ovarian secretions as effectively as more strongly dosed products.  Their les profound inhibition of the hypothalamo-pituitary axis raises hopes of a lessened incidence of postpill amenorrhea.  Progestin-only microdose pills allow considerable ovarian estrogen secretion, creating a veritable iatrogenic luteal insufficiency.  Following the suppression of mestranol, the only estrogen used in OCs is ethinyl estradiol (EE).  The only 19-norsteroid progestins which are fixed directly to the progesterone receptors are norethindrone and norgestrel others such as lynestrenol, ethynodiol diacetate and norethindrone acetate are prohormones.  Menstrual problems are among the most frequent side effects of minidose combined pills, but their incidence had dimished with the appearance of biphasic pills and the triphasic pills should offer even greater improvements.  The frequency of thromboembolic venous accidents is firectly correlated to the estrogen dose of OCs, but arterial accidents and possibly arterial hypertension appear to be linked to the progestin dose.  Synthetic progestins appear to diminish the high density lipoprotein (HDL) fraction of cholesterol and disturb glucose tolerance, while synthetic estrogens augment the HDL fraction of cholesterol and the very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) fraction of triglycerides, modify some coagulation factors, and elevate the plasma level of angiotensinogene.  Dose levels and chemical structures of the constituents influence the metabolic effects of pill formulations.  In current practice, minidose products are preferred because they cause fewer metabolic changes and are less likely to entail vascular risks.  Sequential pills are prescribed for 1 cycle following induced abortion but are not used for long periods because they are not 100% effective, they carry a risk of endometrial hyperplasia, and they appear to increase risks of venous thromboembolism.  A combination of 50 mcg EE and 2 mg cyproterone acetate may be prescribed for acne, and minidose combination pills may be used in case of fibroma or endometriosis.  In case of contraindications to estrogen, a microdose or injectable progestin can be prescribed if their shortcomings are kept in mind.  The current popularity of macrodose progestin-only pills in France has more to do with fashion than with science.  All hormonal contraception should be avoided for women at risk, including smokers and those with hyperlipidemia or a family history of vascular accidents.