Differential gene expression profile in endometrioid and nonendometrioid endometrial carcinoma: STK15 is frequently overexpressed and amplified in nonendometrioid carcinomas. Endometrial carcinoma (EC) comprises at least two types of cancer: endometrioid carcinomas (EECs) are estrogen-related tumors, which are frequently euploid and have a good prognosis. Nonendometrioid carcinomas (NEECs serous and clear cell forms) are not estrogen related, are frequently aneuploid, and are clinically aggressive. We used cDNA microarrays containing 6386 different genes to analyze gene expression profiles in 24 EECs and 11 NEECs to identify differentially expressed genes that could help us to understand differences in the biology and clinical outcome between histotypes. After supervised analysis of the microarray data, there was at least a 2-fold difference in expression between EEC and NEEC in 66 genes. The 31 genes up-regulated in EECs included genes known to be hormonally regulated during the menstrual cycle and to be important in endometrial homeostasis, such as MGB2, LTF, END1, and MMP11, supporting the notion that EEC is a hormone-related neoplasm. Conversely, of the 35 genes overexpressed in NEECs, three genes, STK15, BUB1, and CCNB2, are involved in the regulation of the mitotic spindle checkpoint. Because STK15 amplification/overexpression is associated with aneuploidy and an aggressive phenotype in other human tumors, we used fluorescence in situ hybridization to investigate whether STK15 amplification occurred in ECs. We found that STK15 was amplified in 55.5% of NEECs but not in any EECs (P <or= 0.001). We confirmed this result in an independent series of ECs included in a tissue microarray in which breast and ovarian cancer samples showed an incidence of STK15 amplification of 15 and 18%, respectively (P <or= 0.001). This study demonstrated the usefulness of cDNA microarray technology for identifying differences in gene expression patterns between histological types of EC and implies that alteration of the mitotic checkpoint is a major mechanism of carcinogenesis in NEECs.