Preoperative prediction of poor prognostic parameters and adjuvant treatment in women with pure endometrioid type endometrial cancer: what is the significance of tumor markers? SummaryThe study was conducted to determine whether preoperative serum levels of cancer antigen (CA) 125, CA15- 3, CA19-9, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) are associated clinicopathologically with poor prognostic parameters and adjuvant treatment requirements in women with pure endometrioid endometrial cancer (EEC).The authors performed a retrospective review of EEC cases that were treated between January 2008 and January 2011. The association between preoperative tumor markers and prognostic parameters, recurrence risk, and adjuvant treatment requirements were investigated. Following univariate analyses, receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves were constructed for each marker to assess their capacity to predict prognostic parameters and need for adjuvant treatment.A total of 166 EEC cases were identified. Mean CA125, CA15-3, and CA19-9 levels were higher in cases that required adjuvant treatment (p < 0.05). CA125 had significant power for prediction of extrauterine disease, tumor size > two cm, lymphovascular space invasion (LVSI), deep myometrial invasion, cervical involvement, adnexal involvement, positive cytology, lymph node metastasis, and adjuvant treatment requirement. CA15-3 was a significant marker for adjuvant treatment prediction. CA19-9 could predict deep myometrial invasion, cervical involvement, and adjuvant treatment requirement. However, CEA and AFP did not have adequate capacity to predict any of the poor prognostic parameters and adjuvant treatment requirements. CONCLUSIONs: CA125 is currently one of the most important preoperative markers for identifying EEC cases that exhibit postoperatively poor prognostic pathologic findings and a consequent need for adjuvant treatment. CA15-3 and CA19- 9 were also significant markers with limited capacity in detecting prognostic parameters.