Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I), IGF-I receptors, and IGF binding proteins 1-4 in human uterine tissue: tissue localization and IGF-I action in endometrial stromal and myometrial smooth muscle cells in vitro. The objective of the present study was to elucidate the presence and cellular distribution of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I), IGF-I receptor (IGF-IR), and IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs) in human uterine tissue at various reproductive stages, and to determine the effect of IGF-I and its interaction with epidermal growth factor (EGF) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) in endometrial stromal and myometrial smooth muscle cells in primary culture. Using specific antibodies, immunohistochemical observations indicated that luminal and glandular epithelial cells were the major sites of immunoreactive IGF-I, IGF-IR, and IGFBPs 1-4, followed by myometrial smooth muscle and endometrial stromal cells. The immunostaining intensity of IGF-I, IGF-IR, and IGFBPs in endometrial but not myometrial tissue was cycle-dependent and higher in the late proliferative and early/mid-secretory periods than in the late secretory and postmenopausal periods, with little immunostaining at the early proliferative phase of the menstrual cycle. Stromal and smooth cells in primary cell culture also contained immunoreactive IGF-I, IGF-IR, and IGFBPs. IGF-I at 10-100 ng/ml stimulated 3H-thymidine incorporation in quiescent stromal and smooth muscle cells with maximal effect at 100 ng/ml (p < 0.05). However, in the presence of 2% serum, which induces half-maximal stimulation, IGF-I (100 ng/ml) further increased the rate of 3H-thymidine incorporation in stromal but not smooth muscle cells (p < 0.05). The effect of IGF-I was significantly lower than that induced by EGF (10 ng/ml), PDGF-BB (10 ng/ml) and their combination (p < 0.005), and higher in stromal cells from proliferative, than secretory phase of the cycle in the presence of 2% fetal bovine serum, but not serum-free condition (p < 0.005). The effect of IGF-I on myometrial smooth muscle cells was significantly higher than that induced by EGF, but lower than that induced by PDGF-BB or by EGF+PDGF-BB, without the cycle specificity seen with stromal cells. EGF, PDGF-BB, and their combination with IGF-I, but not IGF-I alone, stimulated stromal and smooth muscle cell growth as determined by a cell proliferation assay. The results indicate that human uterine tissue at various reproductive stages contains immunoreactive IGF-I, IGF-IR, and IGFBPs 1-4. Although IGF-I alone was found to be a weak mitogenic factor for stromal and smooth muscle cells, by interacting with EGF and PDGF-BB in a cycle-dependent manner it may regulate the growth and differentiation of these and other uterine cell types.