N-acetylcysteine prevents endotoxin-induced degeneration of oligodendrocyte progenitors and hypomyelination in developing rat brain. Periventricular leukomalacia (PVL), the dominant form of brain injury in premature infants, is characterized by diffuse white matter injury and is associated with cerebral palsy (CP). Maternal and placental infections are major causes of prematurity and identifiable etiology of PVL and CP. Here we have evaluated the therapeutic efficacy of N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a potent antioxidant and precursor of glutathione, to attenuate lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced white matter injury and hypomyelination in the developing rat brain, an animal model of PVL. Intraperitoneal pretreatment of pregnant female rats with NAC (50 mg/kg), 2 hr prior to administration of LPS at embryonic day 18 (E18), attenuated the LPS-induced expression of inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, and inducible nitric oxide synthase in fetal rat brains. There were significantly reduced numbers of TUNEL(+) nuclei coimmunostained for platelet-derived growth factor-alphaR(+) [a surface marker for oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs)] at E20 in the subventricular zone of fetal rat brain in the NAC + LPS group compared with the untreated LPS group. Interestingly, immunostaining for O4 and O1 as markers for late OPCs and immature oligodendrocytes demonstrated fewer O4(+) and O1(+) cells in the LPS group compared with the NAC + LPS and control groups. Consistent with O4(+)/O1(+) cell counts, the expression of myelin proteins such as myelin basic protein, proteolipid protein, and 2'3'-cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase, including transcription factors such as MyT1 and Gtx, was less in the LPS group at late postnatal days, indicating severe hypomyelination in the developing rat brain when compared with NAC + LPS and control groups. Collectively, these data support the hypothesis that NAC may provide neuroprotection and attenuate the degeneration of OPCs against LPS evoked inflammatory response and white matter injury in developing rat brain. Moreover, these data suggest the possible use of NAC as a treatment for pregnant women with maternal or placental infection as a means of minimizing the risk of PVL and CP.