Acinetobacter septicus sp. nov. association with a nosocomial outbreak of bacteremia in a neonatal intensive care unit. Acinetobacter species other than Acinetobacter baumannii have rarely been reported to be associated with nosocomial outbreaks of bloodstream infections. Within a period of 1 week, seven Acinetobacter-like isolates were recovered from peripheral blood and catheter specimens of five patients at a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) in a tertiary hospital in Turkey. All five patients had placement of central venous catheters and had received total parenteral nutrition before the onset of bacteremia. Two of the five patients died. Medical devices, tap water, aerators, water samples, various surfaces, intravenous fluids, and the hands of health care workers in the NICU were sampled and were culture negative for the bacterium. All seven of the isolates had identical biochemical reactions, antimicrobial susceptibility results, and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis patterns, indicating a clonal nosocomial outbreak. A panel of standard biochemical reaction profiles and three phenotypic commercial identification systems failed to identify these isolates. Phenotypically, the isolate differed from Acinetobacter ursingii by its hemolysis on sheep blood agar and its negative citrate utilization. Sequences of the full 16S rRNA gene, which contained at least three different gene copies with polymorphic sequences between nucleotide positions 70 and 206, were determined from the first recovered isolate. The complete 1,529- to 1,531-bp 16S rRNA gene sequences and partial 801-bp rpoB gene sequences had similarities of 99.5% and 97.2%, respectively, to an A. ursingii isolate. The DNA-DNA similarities of the strain against the type strain of A. ursingii were 64.7 and 68.7%, which were lower than the recommended threshold value of 70% for the definition of bacterial species. These data indicate that a novel Acinetobacter organism caused the nosocomial outbreak of bacteremia in the NICU unit. We propose the designation of Acinetobacter septicus sp. nov. for these isolates, with isolate AK001 as the type strain.