Results of etiologic diagnosis in clinical syndrome consistent with acute and chronic borreliosis. Borreliosis is a multisystem infection, which in the absence of adequate diagnosis and clinical management, may develop towards various clinical forms of chronic pathology. Due to the heterogeneity of clinical manifestations it is known under more names: erythema migrans, Lyme disease, neuroborreliosis etc.Taking into account the present interest and the weight in pathology of syndromes consistent with the suspicion of a Borrelia spp. infection, since 2002 we applied in current practice the investigation of this etiology. There have been investigated 481 subjects, clinically suspected of Borrelia spp. infection that had historical risk of tick bite and cases of serous meningitis, after exclusion of usual etiology. Tests were performed on ELISA kits with standardised immunoreagents and recently, for result validation, on Western immunoblot kits (WB).Our results revealed the Borrelia etiology in 32% of cases (27.96-36.29% CI = 95%) at the screening, value expressed by the persistent positivity of the specific immunoglobulins (Ig) IgM (80.5%) and IgM+IgG (19.5%). Historic infection, represented exclusively by IgG positivity, was present in 8.6% (5.87-11.98% CI = 95%) from the cases that were negative for IgM (68%, 63.71-72.04%, CI = 95%). This weight is superposable with the results obtained in investigating a comparable sample of healthy individuals (193 subjects with 6.74% historical IgG, 3.79-10.96%, CI = 95%). Based on these results, it can be considered that ELISA procedure is useful and of reliable prognosis value for screening the Borrelia spp. etiology, the next step, taking into account the higher sensitivity of WB, being WB procedure which is useful for confirmation of ELISA positive cases and for treatment efficiency surveillance. The results prove that Borrelia spp. infections are a public health issue, which due to the diversity of clinical manifestations and diagnosis difficulties need repeated and complex laboratory investigations.