Characterization of Listeria monocytogenes isolates from human listeriosis cases in Italy. The objective of this study was to characterize by serotyping, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), and PCR amplification of virulence genes and markers of epidemic clones I, II, and III (ECI, ECII, and ECIII) 54 human isolates from apparently sporadic cases of infection occurring in the Lombardy region and in the province of Florence, Tuscany, Italy, in the years 1996 to 2007. Listeria monocytogenes isolates were provided by the clinical microbiology laboratories of the Lombardy region and the "Careggi" Hospital of Florence, Tuscany, Italy. Serotyping, PFGE after digestion with the AscI and ApaI enzymes, and PCR amplification for the inlA, inlC, and inlJ genes and ECI, ECII, and ECIII markers were performed according to procedures described previously. Twenty-five (46.3%) L. monocytogenes isolates were assigned to serotype 1/2a, 23 (42.6%) to serotype 4b, and 6 (11.1%) to serotype 1/2b. Thirty-one AscI pulsotypes were recognized among the 54 human isolates. Eleven molecular subtype clusters, of which eight included indistinguishable pulsotypes and three included closely related pulsotypes, were shared by two to seven isolates. Fifteen isolates exhibited unique AscI pulsotypes. Three groups of clustered isolates and two apparently sporadic isolates generated EC amplicons. All strains tested positive for the inlA, inlC, and inlJ genes. Based on the results of serotyping and molecular typing, there were 11 occasions when L. monocytogenes strains with the same subtype were isolated from more than one listeriosis case. A total of 39 out of 54 isolates (72.2%) were attributed to molecular subtype clusters. The results of the study suggest that routine subtyping of L. monocytogenes strains from human listeriosis cases could allow more-timely detection of outbreaks possibly caused by food-borne isolates from a common source and could lead to control of ongoing food exposure, thus preventing the occurrence of more cases.