Characterization by phenotypic and genotypic methods of metallo-β-lactamase-producing Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolated from patients with cystic fibrosis. Pseudomonas aeruginosa continues to be a predominant cause of infections with high intrinsic resistance to antibiotics, resulting in treatment failure. P. aeruginosa is the leading cause of respiratory infections among cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Resistance to carbapenem antibiotics among P. aeruginosa has been reported. Thus, this study was undertaken to characterize the metallo-β-lactamase (MBL) production of P. aeruginosa by phenotypic and genotypic methods. A total of 572 sputum samples were collected from cystic fibrosis patients along with the patient demographic details in a questionnaire. In total, 217 P. aeruginosa isolates were collected and an antibiogram revealed that 159 (73.3%) and 141 (64.9%) of these colonies exhibited resistance to imipenem and meropenem, respectively. Ceftazidime and tobramycin resistance were both identified in 112 (51.6%) isolates, and resistance to piperacillin-tazobactam, gatifloxacin and netilmicin was detected in 96 (44.2%) respective samples. A total of 62 (28.6%) respective samples were resistant to cefoperazone, cefepime and ceftriaxone. The least antibiotic resistance was shown to amikacin and ceftizoxime with 51 (23.5%) and 32 (14.7%) respective colonies resistant to the antibiotics. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) for imipenem revealed a reduction in the MIC values. MBL screening by the zone enhancement method using ceftazidime plus EDTA discs demonstrated that 63 (56.25%) of the colonies were positive for MBL. A total of 53 (84.1%) samples expressed blaVIM and 48 (76.1%) expressed blaIMP genes, as detected by duplex polymerase chain reaction. In conclusion, carbapenem resistance is of great clinical concern in cystic fibrosis patients with P. aeruginosa infection. Therefore, mandatory regular screening and monitoring the resistance in P. aeruginosa among CF patients is required.