Therapeutic efficacy of artemether-lumefantrine on treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum mono-infection in an area of high malaria transmission in Zambia. Anti-malarial drug resistance continues to be a leading threat to ongoing malaria control efforts and calls for continued monitoring of the efficacy of these drugs in order to inform national anti-malarial drug policy decision-making. This study assessed the therapeutic efficacy and safety of artemether-lumefantrine (AL)(Coartem®) for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in two sentinel high malaria transmission districts in the Eastern Province of Zambia in persons aged six months and above, excluding women aged 12 to 18 years.This was an observational cohort of 176 symptomatic patients diagnosed with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum mono-infection. A World Health Organization (WHO)-standardized 28-day assessment protocol was used to assess clinical and parasitological responses to directly observed AL treatment of uncomplicated malaria. DNA polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis for molecular markers of AL resistance was conducted on positive blood samples and differentiated recrudescence from re-infections of the malaria parasites.All patients (CI 97.6-100) had adequate clinical and parasitological responses to treatment with AL. At the time of enrolment, mean slide positivity among study participants was 71.8% and 55.2% in Katete and Chipata, respectively. From a mean parasite density of 55,087, 98% of the study participants presented with zero parasitaemia by day 3 of the study. Fever clearance occurred within 24 hours of treatment with AL. However mean parasite density declines were most dramatic in participants in the older age. No adverse reactions to AL treatment were observed during the study.AL remains a safe and efficacious drug for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Zambia, endemic for malaria, with some provinces experiencing high transmission intensity. However, the delayed parasite clearance in younger patients calls for further sentinel and periodical monitoring of AL efficacy in different areas of the country.