Comparison of hydrosonography and diagnostic hysteroscopy in the evaluation of infertile patients. In the present study we evaluated the value of hydrosonography in the screening for intracavitary structural pathologies in patients with a history of infertility before the implementation of assisted-reproductive technology. Hysterescopy was regarded as the gold standard procedure.A retrospective study.A total number of 115 infertile women aged between 19 and 47 (33.4 +/- 5.3), who were candidates for assisted reproductive techniques, were enrolled in this retrospective analysis. The study comprised data obtained from patients undergoing infertility investigation between 2001 and 2003 at Ozel Ege IVF Center and the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of Ege University Faculty of Medicine. The results obtained by hydrosonography were later compared with those of hysteroscopy. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value for hydrosonography were calculated.In a total of 115 women, 53 (46%), 24 (20%), 30 (26%) and 8 (7%) were found to have normal endometrial cavities, submucous myoma, endometrial polyps and uterine septum, respectively, on hydrosonography. Forty-five (85%) of 53 women, who were supposed to have normal findings on hydrosonography, were confirmed by hysteroscopy. In the remaining eight women (15%), two had endometrial polyps, three had uterine septum, one had submucous myoma and two had intrauterine synechia on hysteroscopic examinations. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values of hydrosonography in the detection of structural endometrial cavity lesions were 85%, 75%, 75% and 84%, respectively. Two intrauterine adhesions were not recognized by hydrosonography.Hydrosonography may be a useful tool in the evaluation of intrauterine cavity structural pathologies in infertile patients with the exception of intrauterine adhesions. In addition, hydrosonography was found to be sensitive in the detection of intrauterine septum.