Computerized detection of colorectal masses in CT colonography based on fuzzy merging and wall-thickening analysis. In recent years, several computer-aided detection (CAD) schemes have been developed for the detection of polyps in CT colonography (CTC). However, few studies have addressed the problem of computerized detection of colorectal masses in CTC. This is mostly because masses are considered to be well visualized by a radiologist because of their size and invasiveness. Nevertheless, the automated detection of masses would naturally complement the automated detection of polyps in CTC and would produce a more comprehensive computer aid to radiologists. Therefore, in this study, we identified some of the problems involved with the computerized detection of masses, and we developed a scheme for the computerized detection of masses that can be integrated into a CAD scheme for the detection of polyps. The performance of the mass detection scheme was evaluated by application to clinical CTC data sets. CTC was performed on 82 patients with helical CT scanners and reconstruction intervals of 1.0-5.0 mm in the supine and prone positions. Fourteen patients (17%) had a total of 14 masses of 30-50 mm, and sixteen patients (20%) had a total of 30 polyps 5-25 mm in diameter. Four patients had both polyps and masses. Fifty-six of the patients (68%) were normal. The CTC data were interpolated linearly to yield isotropic data sets, and the colon was extracted by use of a knowledge-guided segmentation technique. Two methods, fuzzy merging and wall-thickening analysis, were developed for the detection of masses. The fuzzy merging method detected masses with a significant intraluminal component by separating the initial CAD detections of locally cap-like shapes within the colonic wall into mass candidates and polyp candidates. The wall-thickening analysis detected nonintraluminal masses by searching the colonic wall for abnormal thickening. The final regions of the mass candidates were extracted by use of a level set method based on a fast marching algorithm. False-positive (FP) detections were reduced by a quadratic discriminant classifier. The performance of the scheme was evaluated by use of a leave-one-out (round-robin) method with by-patient elimination. All but one of the 14 masses, which was partially cut off from the CTC data set in both supine and prone positions, were detected. The fuzzy merging method detected 11 of the masses, and the wall-thickening analysis detected 3 of the masses including all nonintraluminal masses. In combination, the two methods detected 13 of the 14 masses with 0.21 FPs per patient on average based on the leave-one-out evaluation. Most FPs were generated by extrinsic compression of the colonic wall that would be recognized easily and quickly by a radiologist. The mass detection methods did not affect the result of the polyp detection. The results indicate that the scheme is potentially useful in providing a high-performance CAD scheme for the detection of colorectal neoplasms in CTC.