Primary repair of advanced obstetric anal sphincter tears: should it be performed by the overlapping sphincteroplasty technique? Advanced obstetric anal sphincter tears are often associated with a high incidence of fecal and flatus incontinence. We aimed to assess the clinical outcome of these repairs when done by the overlapping sphincteroplasty technique with reconstruction of the internal anal sphincter and perineum. Between August 2005 and December 2006, all grades 3 and 4 obstetric anal sphincter tears in our department were repaired by a reconstructive pelvic surgeon, primarily using the overlapping sphincteroplasty technique with reconstruction of the internal anal sphincter and perineum. All women were followed every 6 months using the Colorectal Anal Distress Inventory and Pelvic Organ Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence Sexual Function Questionnaire, a physical examination of the anal sphincter, anal manometry, and transperineal anal sonography. There were 3,478 deliveries of which 22 (0.63%) anal sphincter tears were repaired in women aged 22-41 years. Two women were diagnosed with Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists grade 3a, eight with grade 3b, nine with grade 3c, and three with grade 4 anal sphincter tears. Postoperatively, 21 patients attended the outpatient clinic, with an average follow-up time of 9.2+/-1.4 months. Only two women (9.5%) complained of flatus incontinence and fecal urgency and had mildly decreased anal sphincter squeeze pressure and a small sonographic anal sphincter defect. None of the women complained of fecal incontinence. Two women (9.5%) reported on transient perineal pain and one (4.8%) on transient dyspareunia. All other women were asymptomatic and had normal anal manometry and sonographic evaluation. Repair of obstetric anal sphincter tears using the overlapping sphincteroplasty technique with reconstruction of the internal anal sphincter and perineum seems to carry favorable clinical outcome and reduced risk for anal incontinence, perineal pain, and sexual dysfunction.