Tubal sterilization during cesarean section or as an elective procedure? Effect on the ovarian reserve. The purpose of this study is to compare the effects of tubal sterilization on the ovarian reserve by means of hormonal and ultrasonographic evaluation during a cesarean section or when performed as a planned interval procedure.Fifty women who had undergone tubal sterilization during a cesarean section (n=24) and by minilaparotomy as an elective procedure (n=26) were included in the study. Tubes were ligated with the Pomeroy technique in both groups. The women who had chosen to use barrier method or intrauterine device for contraception (n=30) constituted the control group. Among the women in the control group, two separate control groups were constituted (control 1 and control 2) who were age matched with the women in each study group. Hormone levels including antimüllerian hormone (AMH) and inhibin B and ultrasonographic evaluations were performed on the third day of the menstrual cycle 1 year after the tubal sterilization procedure.Mean blood estradiol, follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone levels on the third day of the cycle postoperative 12 months after the surgical intervention did not show any significant differences in the groups with respect to their age-matched controls. There was no significant difference in terms of mean serum AMH and inhibin B levels between the groups and their age-matched controls. However, significantly higher postoperative levels of mean AMH levels were detected in the tubal sterilization during cesarean section group when compared with the minilaparotomy group, and significantly lower postoperative levels of mean inhibin B were detected in the elective tubal sterilization via minilaparotomy group when compared with the cesarean section group. Statistically significant differences were observed in terms of number of antral follicles and mean ovarian volumes being less in the elective tubal sterilization via minilaparotomy group when compared with age-matched controls.Intraoperative cesarean section tubal sterilization seems to be a practical and safe method, and has less effect on the ovarian reserve when compared with planned tubal sterilization by minilaparotomy.