Comparing transvaginally defined endometrial thickness with hysteroscopic and histopathologic findings in asyptomatic postmenopausal women. To assess the diagnostic value of transvaginal sonography (TVS) measurement of the endometrium compared to hysteroscopic findings and histopathologic reports in order to facilitate clinical management in asymptomatic postmenopausal women with thickened endometrium.During the period between January 2000 and December 2008, a retrospective analysis was performed including cases of women who were preoperatively diagnosed with a sonographically thickened endometrium, while asymptomatic, and therefore underwent hysteroscopic and fractionated dilatation and curettage (D & C) under general anesthesia at the Second Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Aretaieion Hospital in Athens, Greece. In the present study we compare US, hysteroscopic and pathologic findings.The mean age of the patients ranged between 54-74 years (mean age 65.2 +/- 6.8 years). In 108 cases, sonographically measured endometrial thickness ranged between 5 and 10 mm. In 59 cases, endometrial thickness ranged between 11 and 15 mm, whereas in 22 cases, between 16 and 20 mm and finally, in 13 cases endometrial thickness was more than 20 mm. Hysteroscopic examination revealed endometrial polyps in 161 cases, focal hyperplastic lesions in 28 cases, complete hyperplastic lesions in five cases while atrophy was found in five and cancer in three cases, respectively. Pathological results of the samples taken after hysteroscopy are as follows: in 169 cases (83.67%) in women with asymptomatic abnormal endometrial thickness, an endometrial polyp was present. Endometrial thickness in these cases patients was 10.9 +/- 7.5 mm. In patients with focal hyperplasia (22 cases), endometrial thickness was 7.2 +/- 0.5 mm but in patients with complete hyperplasia (5 cases) endometrial thickness was higher (12.3 +/- 5.1 mm). Finally, in three cases with endometrial carcinoma endometrial thickness was 15.5 +/- 7.8 mm. Six cases out of 28 described in our study were diagnosed as focal hyperplasia and two out of five cases as complete hyperplasia, whereas histological reports classified these cases as endometrial polyps. The other histological diagnoses confirmed hysteroscopic findings and thus provided the same results.We recommend hysteroscopy to follow gynecological TVS when a thickened endometrium is found in asyptomatic postmenopausal women for better diagnostic and, in a later stage, therapeutic efficacy.