Transrectal ultrasound-guided hysteroscopic myomectomy of submucosal myomas with a varying degree of myometrial penetration. To predict the 1-step complete resection rate after transrectal ultrasound-guided hysteroscopic myomectomy and to determine the usefulness of intraoperative transrectal ultrasonography (TRUS) in monitoring hysteroscopic electroresection of submucosal myomas.Prospective cohort study (Canadian Task Force classification II-1).University hospital.One hundred twenty women with symptomatic (abnormal uterine bleeding or reproductive disorder), single, submucosal myomas underwent hysteroscopic electroresection. Groups 1 and 2 were monitored, respectively, with or without TRUS. Anatomical inclusion criteria were myoma ≤5 cm and myometrial free margin ≥3 mm above the myoma.Myomas were evaluated preoperatively via sonohysterograpy and were graded according to the guidelines outlined by the European Society of Hysteroscopy (ESH), including size and myometrial free margin, and according to the STEPW (size, topography, extension, penetration, and lateral wall) classification. On the basis of sonographic findings, patients with myomas >3 cm received gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy for 1 to 3 months. Hysteroscopic myomectomy was performed with or without TRUS guidance. At 4 to 8 weeks after the initial procedure, postoperative transvaginal ultrasonography, sonohysterography, or second-look hysteroscopy was performed.In the TRUS group, a significantly higher percentage of 1-step complete resections was observed than in the group without TRUS (91% vs 73%) (p = .02). This was associated with a statistically significant difference in the subgroups of myomas that were deeply penetrating into the myometrium (89% vs 55%) (p < .01). One-way logistic analysis of data for all treated patients indicated the use of TRUS, as well as the ESH and STEPW classifications, as significant factors influencing the 1-step complete resection. At multivariable logistic regression analysis, use of TRUS (odds ratio [OR], 2.74 p < .001), myomas graded 0 or 1 according to ESH (OR, 3.55Intraoperative use of TRUS during hysteroscopic myomectomy increases the chance of complete 1-step removal of submucosal myomas that deeply penetrate the myometrium.