Laparoscopic cholecystectomy in choledocholithiasis and stricture of the terminal part of the common bile duct. The authors offer the treatment and diagnostic algorithm in choledocholithiasis, stricture of a terminal portion of the common hepatic duct and papilla stenosis revealed in laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LCE). With the purpose of intraoperative assessment of bile ducts states during LCE, the diagnostic system including laparoscopic and ultrasonic examinations, cholangiography and choledochoscopy was developed and applied. In intraoperative revealing of choledocholithiasis without bile outflow disorders and wide cystic duct the authors prefer to remove the concrements during choledochoscopy through cystic duct without intervention on Vater's papilla (VP). In combination of choledocholithiasis with bile outflow disorders and also in isolated papilla stenosis and stricture of a terminal portion of the common hepatic duct, one-stage laparoscopic cholecystectomy, intraoperative antegrade papillosphincterotomy and retrograde calculus extraction is optimal. In cases when complete endoscopic calculus extraction is impossible, the drainage of the common hepatic duct by Cholsted's with subsequent delayed endoscopic papillosphincterotomy (EPST) is acceptable. During intraoperative examination in 49 patients (57.6%) the concrements in choledochus, not diagnosed earlier, were revealed, in 21--stricture of terminal choledochus portion and in 19 patients--papilla stenosis. In 12 cases the concrements were removed during choledochoscopy through the cystic duct stump, 4 patients with big concrements required laparoscopic choledocholithotomy. In 16 cases LCE with various variants of choledochus drainage was performed as the first stage, as the second stage--EPST and lithoextraction. Antegrade papillosphincterotomy was performed in 15 patients during LCE. In 12 cases intraoperatively revealed choledocholithiasis combined with papilla stenosis (7) and choledochus stricture (5) was the indications to intraoperative papillosphincterotomy. Papilla stenosis was the indication to antegrade papillosphincterotomy in 3 patients.