Laparoscopy predicts metastatic disease and spares laparotomy in selected patients with pancreatic nonfunctioning islet cell tumors. Our objective was to compare the efficacy of CT alone to CT followed by laparoscopy in determining resectability of pancreatic nonfunctioning islet (NFI) cell tumors.A retrospective analysis from 1993 to 1999 revealed 48 patients who underwent surgical evaluation for NFI cell tumors. Of these, 34 (71%) patients underwent laparoscopy and CT for either diagnostic purposes or tumor staging. CT and laparoscopic criteria for curative resectability were defined and the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of both modalities in determining resectability were calculated.The most frequent tumor location and presenting symptoms were pancreatic head (n = 27, 56%) and abdominal pain (n = 31, 65%), respectively. Median tumor size was 4.0 cm. In the laparoscopy group, curative resection was performed in 20 cases (59%). CT followed by laparoscopy was more sensitive than CT alone in predicting resectability (93% vs. 50%, P = 0.03) with similar specificity (both 100%). The predictive value for tumor resectability was 74% for CT alone and 95% for CT followed by laparoscopy. Reasons for unresectability identified at laparoscopy but not indicated by CT were liver metastases (n = 6) or nodal disease (n = 1). Four of these patients were spared a laparotomy while the other three patients underwent surgical palliation and all are alive with disease (AWD). In those not undergoing laparoscopy (n = 14), curative resection was performed in 64% (n = 9). Four of these patients underwent resection, despite having metastases, and three are AWD.NFI cell tumors of the pancreas present as large masses with frequent metastases. Despite metastatic disease, prolonged survival is often achieved with or without open surgical treatment. Laparoscopy can be used in diagnosis and accurately identifies metastases not seen on CT, thus sparing laparotomy in some patients.