Trimodal gadolinium-gold microcapsules containing pancreatic islet cells restore normoglycemia in diabetic mice and can be tracked by using US, CT, and positive-contrast MR imaging. To develop microcapsules that immunoprotect pancreatic islet cells for treatment of type I diabetes and enable multimodal cellular imaging of transplanted islet cells.All animal experiments were approved by the institutional animal care and use committee. Gold nanoparticles functionalized with DTDTPA (dithiolated diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid):gadolinium chelates (GG) were coencapsulated with pancreatic islet cells by using protamine sulfate as a clinical-grade alginate cross linker. Conventional poly-l-lysine-cross-linked microcapsules and unencapsulated islets were included as controls. The viability and glucose responsiveness of islet cells were assessed in vitro, and in vivo insulin (C-peptide) secretion was monitored for 6 weeks in (streptozotocin-induced) diabetic mice with (n = 7) or without (n = 8) intraabdominally engrafted islet cells. Five nondiabetic mice were included as controls. Differences between samples were calculated by using a nonparametric Wilcoxon Mann-Whitney method. To adjust for multiple comparisons, a significance level of P < .01 was chosen. Generalized estimating equations were used to model cell function over time. Three mice with engrafted capsules were imaged in vivo with high-field-strength (9.4-T) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, micro-computed tomography (CT), and 40-MHz ultrasonography (US).Encapsulated human pancreatic islets were functional in vitro for at least 2 weeks after encapsulation. Blood glucose levels in the diabetic mice transplanted with GG-labeled encapsulated mouse βTC6 insulinoma cells returned to normal within 1 week after transplantation, and normoglycemia was sustained for at least 6 weeks without the use of immunosuppressive drugs. GG microcapsules could be readily visualized with positive-contrast high-field-strength MR imaging, micro-CT, and US both in vitro and in vivo.Cell encapsulation with GG provides a means of trimodal noninvasive tracking of engrafted cells.