<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-03-24</DATELINE><TITLE>Inhibition of arterivirus RNA synthesis by cyclophilin inhibitors is counteracted by mutations in replicase transmembrane subunits</TITLE><BODY>AbstractPreviously, the cyclophilin inhibitors cyclosporin A (CsA) and Alisporivir (ALV) were shown to inhibit the replication of diverse RNA viruses, including arteriviruses and coronaviruses, which both belong to the orderNidovirales. Here we aimed to identify arterivirus proteins involved in the mode-of-action of cyclophilin inhibitors and to investigate how these compounds inhibit arterivirus RNA synthesis in the infected cell. Repeated passaging of the arterivirus prototype equine arteritis virus (EAV) in the presence of CsA revealed that reduced drug sensitivity is associated with the emergence of adaptive mutations in nonstructural protein 5 (nsp5), one of the transmembrane subunits of the arterivirus replicase polyprotein. Introduction of singular nsp5 mutations (nsp5 Q21R, Y113H, or A134V) led to a ∼2-fold decrease in sensitivity to CsA treatment, whereas combinations of mutations further increased EAV’s CsA resistance. The detailed experimental characterization of engineered EAV mutants harboring CsA-resistance mutations implicated nsp5 in arterivirus RNA synthesis. Particularly, in anin vitroassay, EAV RNA synthesis was far less sensitive to CsA treatment when nsp5 contained the adaptive mutations mentioned above. Interestingly, for increased sensitivity to the closely-related drug ALV CsA-resistant nsp5 mutants required the incorporation of an additional adaptive mutation, which resided in nsp2 (H114R), another transmembrane subunit of the arterivirus replicase. Our study provides the first evidence for the involvement of nsp2 and nsp5 in the mechanism underlying the inhibition of arterivirus replication by cyclophilin inhibitors.ImportanceCurrently, no approved treatments are available to combat infections with nidoviruses, a group of plus-stranded RNA viruses including important zoonotic and veterinary pathogens. Previously, the cyclophilin inhibitors cyclosporin A (CsA) and Alisporivir (ALV) were shown to inhibit the replication of diverse nidoviruses (both arteriviruses and coronaviruses), and may thus represent a class of pan-nidovirus inhibitors. Here, using the arterivirus prototype equine arteritis virus, we have established that resistance to CsA and ALV treatment is associated with adaptive mutations in two trans-membrane subunits of the viral replication complex, nonstructural proteins 2 and 5. This is the first evidence for the involvement of specific replicase subunits of nidoviruses in the mechanism underlying the inhibition of their replication by cyclophilin inhibitors. Understanding this mechanism of action is of major importance to guide future drug design, both for nidoviruses and other RNA viruses inhibited by these compounds.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>