<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-03-29</DATELINE><TITLE>Direct nucleic acid analysis of mosquitoes for high fidelity species identification and detection of Wolbachia using a cellphone</TITLE><BODY>AbstractManipulation of natural mosquito populations using the endosymbiotic bacteria Wolbachia is being investigated as a novel strategy to reduce the burden of mosquito-borne viruses. To evaluate the efficacy of these interventions, it will be critical to determine Wolbachia infection frequencies in Aedes aegypti mosquito populations. However, current diagnostic tools are not well-suited to fit this need. Morphological methods cannot identify Wolbachia, immunoassays often suffer from low sensitivity and poor throughput, while PCR and spectroscopy require complex instruments and technical expertise, which restrict their use to centralized laboratories. To address this unmet need, we have used loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) and oligonucleotide strand displacement (OSD) probes to create a one-pot sample-to-answer nucleic acid diagnostic platform for vector and symbiont surveillance. LAMP-OSD assays can directly amplify target nucleic acids from macerated mosquitoes without requiring nucleic acid purification and yield specific single endpoint yes/no fluorescence signals that are observable to eye or by cellphone camera. We demonstrate cellphone-imaged LAMP-OSD tests for two targets, the Aedes aegypti cytochrome oxidase I (coi) gene and the Wolbachia surface protein (wsp) gene, and show a limit of detection of 4 and 40 target DNA copies, respectively. In a blinded test of 90 field-caught mosquitoes, the coi LAMP-OSD assay demonstrated 98% specificity and 97% sensitivity in identifying Ae. aegypti mosquitoes even after 3 weeks of storage without desiccant at 37 °C. Similarly, the wsp LAMP-OSD assay readily identified the wAlbB Wolbachia strain in field-collected Aedes albopictus mosquitoes without generating any false positive signals. Modest technology requirements, minimal execution steps, simple binary readout, and robust accuracy make the LAMP-OSD-to-cellphone assay platform well suited for field vector surveillance in austere or resource-limited conditions.Author summaryMosquitoes spread many human pathogens and novel approaches are required to reduce the burden of mosquito-borne disease. One promising approach is transferring Wolbachia into Aedes aegypti mosquitoes where it blocks transmission of arboviruses like dengue, Zika and Yellow fever viruses and spreads through mosquito populations. For effective evaluation of this approach, regular surveillance of Wolbachia infections in Ae. aegypti is required, but current diagnostic tools are not well suited to support these critical surveillance needs. To fill this need we developed a simple, robust and inexpensive assay to identify Ae. aegypti mosquitoes and Wolbachia using our unique one-pot assay platform, LAMP-OSD, which uses loop-mediated isothermal amplification to amplify nucleic acid targets at a single temperature. Unlike other LAMP-based tests, our assays assure accuracy by coupling amplification with novel nucleic acid strand displacement (OSD) probes that hybridize to specific sequences in LAMP amplification products and thereby generate simple yes/no readout of fluorescence readable by human eye and by off-the-shelf cellphones. To facilitate field use, we developed our assays so they are compatible with crushed mosquito homogenate as the template, meaning no nucleic acid extraction is required. In blinded tests using field collected mosquitoes, LAMP-OSD-cellphone tests performed robustly to identify 29 of 30 Ae. aegypti even after 3 weeks of storage at 37 °C while producing only one false positive out of 60 non-specific mosquitoes. Similarly, our assay could identify Wolbachia in field-caught Aedes albopictus without producing any false positives. Our easy to use and easy to interpret assays should facilitate widespread field mosquito surveillance with minimal instrumentation and high accuracy.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>