<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-04-07</DATELINE><TITLE>The transcriptional and translational landscape of equine torovirus</TITLE><BODY>AbstractThe genus Torovirus (subfamily Torovirinae, family Coronaviridae, order Nidovirales) encompasses a range of species that infect domestic ungulates including cattle, sheep, goats, pigs and horses, causing an acute self-limiting gastroenteritis. Using the prototype species equine torovirus (EToV) we performed parallel RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and ribosome profiling (Ribo-seq) to analyse the relative expression levels of the known torovirus proteins and transcripts, chimaeric sequences produced via discontinuous RNA synthesis (a characteristic of the nidovirus replication cycle) and changes in host transcription and translation as a result of EToV infection. RNA sequencing confirmed that EToV utilises a unique combination of discontinuous and non-discontinuous RNA synthesis to produce its subgenomic RNAs; indeed, we identified transcripts arising from both mechanisms that would result in sgRNAs encoding the nucleocapsid. Our ribosome profiling analysis revealed that ribosomes efficiently translate two novel CUG-initiated ORFs, located within the so-called 5’ UTR. We have termed the resulting proteins U1 and U2. Comparative genomic analysis confirmed that these ORFs are conserved across all available torovirus sequences and the inferred amino acid sequences are subject to purifying selection, indicating that U1 and U2 are functionally relevant. This study provides the first high-resolution analysis of transcription and translation in this neglected group of livestock pathogens.ImportanceToroviruses infect cattle, goats, pigs and horses worldwide and can cause gastrointestinal disease. There is no treatment or vaccine and their ability to spill over into humans has not been assessed. These viruses are related to important human pathogens including severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus and they share some common features, however the mechanism that they use to produce subgenomic RNA molecules differs. Here we performed deep sequencing to determine how equine torovirus produces subgenomic RNAs. In doing so, we also identified two previously unknown open reading frames “hidden” within the genome. Together these results highlight the similarities and differences between this domestic animal virus and related pathogens of humans and livestock.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>