<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-02-08</DATELINE><TITLE>Arenaviridae exoribonuclease presents genomic RNA edition capacity</TITLE><BODY>AbstractThe Arenaviridae is a large family of viruses causing both acute and persistent infections and causing significant public health concerns in afflicted regions. A “trademark” of infection is the quick and efficient immuno-suppression mediated in part by a 3’-5’ RNA exonuclease domain (ExoN) of the Nucleoprotein (NP). Mopeia virus, the eastern African counterpart of Lassa virus, carries such ExoN domain, but does not suppress the host innate immunity. We have recently reported the crystal structure of the Mopeia virus ExoN domain, which presents a conserved fold and active site. In the present study, we show that the ExoN activity rules out a direct link between ExoN activity and alteration of the host innate immunity. We found that the Arenavirus ExoN, however, is able to excise mis-incorporated bases present at the 3’-end of double stranded RNA. ExoN(-) arenaviruses cultured in cells dampened in innate immunity still replicated in spite of a significant reduction in the viral charge over several passages. The remaining ExoN(-) virus population showed an increased base substitution rate on a narrow nucleotide spectrum, linking the ExoN activity to genome editing. Since, the Arenavirus ExoN belongs to the same nuclease family as that of the nsp14 coronavirus ExoN ; which has been recently shown to promote viral RNA synthesis proofreading; we propose that Arenavirus ExoN is involved in a “limited RNA editing” mechanism mainly controlled by structural constraints and a low mutational/fitness ratio.Author summaryOnly Arenaviridae and Coronaviridae encode a 3’-5’ RNA exonuclease domain (ExoN) in their genome. This activity is either used to counteract the innate immunity response during viral infection or to ensure genome stability during replication. Mopeia virus (MOPV), the eastern African counterpart of Lassa virus, carries such ExoN domain, but does not suppress the host innate immunity. We studied MOPV ExoN activity both in vitro and in cellula to assess the role of ExoN MOPV and found that the Arenaviral ExoN is fully active on dsRNA, and is able like the one of Coronaviridae to excise a mismatched base. We measured genetic stability and found evidence of a limited spectrum of RNA synthesis proofreading mechanism, together with a strongly impacted viral replication. We propose that the Arenaviral ExoN is involved in a functional check of the conserved RNA structures of the viral genome.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>