<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-04-27</DATELINE><TITLE>A speed-fidelity trade-off determines the mutation rate and virulence of an RNA virus</TITLE><BODY>AbstractMutation rates can evolve through genetic drift, indirect selection due to genetic hitchhiking, or direct selection on the physicochemical cost of high fidelity. However, for many systems, it has been difficult to disentangle the relative impact of these forces empirically. In RNA viruses, an observed correlation between mutation rate and virulence has led many to argue that their extremely high mutation rates are advantageous, because they may allow for increased adaptability. This argument has profound implications, as it suggests that pathogenesis in many viral infections depends on rare or de novo mutations. Here we present data for an alternative model whereby RNA viruses evolve high mutation rates as a byproduct of selection for increased replicative speed. We find that a poliovirus antimutator, 3DG64S, has a significant replication defect and that wild type and 3DG64S populations have similar adaptability in two distinct cellular environments. Experimental evolution of 3DG64S under r-selection led to reversion and compensation of the fidelity phenotype. Mice infected with 3DG64S exhibited delayed morbidity at doses well above the LD50, consistent with attenuation by slower growth as opposed to reduced mutational supply. Furthermore, compensation of the 3DG64S growth defect restored virulence, while compensation of the fidelity phenotype did not. Our data are consistent with the kinetic proofreading model for biosynthetic reactions and suggest that speed is more important than accuracy. In contrast to what has been suggested for many RNA viruses, we find that within host spread is associated with viral replicative speed and not standing genetic diversity.Author SummaryMutation rate evolution has long been a fundamental problem in evolutionary biology. The polymerases of RNA viruses generally lack proofreading activity and exhibit extremely high mutation rates. Since most mutations are deleterious and mutation rates are tuned by natural selection, we asked why hasn’t the virus evolved to have a lower mutation rate? We used experimental evolution and a murine infection model to show that RNA virus mutation rates may actually be too high and are not necessarily adaptive. Rather, our data indicate that viral mutation rates are driven higher as a result of selection for viruses with faster replication kinetics. We suggest that viruses have high mutation rates, not because they facilitate adaption, but because it is hard to be both fast and accurate.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>