<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2020-04-02</DATELINE><TITLE>Prospects for detecting early warning signals in discrete event sequence data: application to epidemiological incidence data</TITLE><BODY>AbstractEarly warning signals (EWS) identify systems approaching a critical transition, where the system undergoes a sudden change in state. For example, monitoring changes in variance or autocorrelation offers a computationally inexpensive method which can be used in real-time to assess when an infectious disease transitions to elimination. EWS have a promising potential to not only be used to monitor infectious diseases, but also to inform control policies to aid disease elimination. Previously, potential EWS have been identified for prevalence data, however the prevalence of a disease is often not known directly. In this work we identify EWS for incidence data, the standard data type collected by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) or World Health Organization (WHO). We show, through several examples, that EWS calculated on simulated incidence time series data exhibit vastly different behaviours to those previously studied on prevalence data. In particular, the variance displays a decreasing trend on the approach to disease elimination, contrary to that expected from critical slowing down theory; this could lead to unreliable indicators of elimination when calculated on real-world data. We derive analytical predictions which can be generalised for many epidemiological systems, and we support our theory with simulated studies of disease incidence. Additionally, we explore EWS calculated on the rate of incidence over time, a property which can be extracted directly from incidence data. We find that although incidence might not exhibit typical critical slowing down properties before a critical transition, the rate of incidence does, presenting a promising new data type for the application of statistical indicators.Author summaryThe threat posed by infectious diseases has a huge impact on our global society. It is therefore critical to monitor infectious diseases as new data become available during control campaigns. One obstacle in observing disease emergence or elimination is understanding what influences noise in the data and how this fluctuates when near to zero cases. The standard data type collected is the number of new cases per day/month/year but mathematical modellers often focus on data such as the total number of infectious people, due to its analytical properties. We have developed a methodology to monitor the standard type of data to inform whether a disease is approaching emergence or disease elimination. We have shown computationally how fluctuations change as disease data get closer towards a tipping point and our insights highlight how these observed changes can be strikingly different when calculated on different types of data.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>