<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-05-03</DATELINE><TITLE>Extensive genetic diversity of bat-borne polyomaviruses reveals inter-family host-switching events</TITLE><BODY>AbstractPolyomaviruses (PyVs) are small, double-stranded DNA tumor viruses carried by diverse vertebrates. PyVs have previously been considered highly host restricted in mammalian hosts, with host-switching events thought rare or nonexistent. Prior investigations have revealed short-range host-switching events of PyVs in two different African bat species within the horseshoe bat genus Rhinolophus. Herein, we have conducted a systematic investigation of PyVs in 1,083 archived bat samples collected from five provinces across China, and identified 192 PyVs from 186 bats from 15 host species within 6 families (Rhinolophidae, Vespertilionidae, Hipposideridae, Emballonuridae, Miniopteridae and Pteropodidae) representing 28 newly-described PyVs, indicative of extensive genetic diversity of bat PyVs. Surprisingly, two PyVs were identified in multiple bat species from different families, and another PyV clustered phylogenetically with PyVs carried by bats from a different host family, indicative of three inter-family PyV host-switching events. The time to most recent common ancestor (tMRCA) of the three events was estimated at 0.02-11.6 million years ago (MYA), which is inconsistent with the estimated tMRCA of their respective bat hosts (36.3-66.7 MYA), and is most parsimoniously explained by host-switching events. PyVs identified from geographically separated Chinese horseshoe bat species in the present study showed close genetic identities, and clustered with each other and with PyVs from African horseshoe bats, allowing assessment of the effects of positive selection in VP1 within the horseshoe bat family Rhinolophidae. Correlation analysis indicated that co-evolution with their hosts contributed much more to evolutionary divergence of PyV than geographic distance. In conclusion, our findings provide the first evidence of inter-family host-switching events of PyV in mammals and challenge the prevailing evolutionary paradigm for strict host restriction of mammalian PyVs.Author summarySince the discovery of murine polyomavirus in the 1950s, polyomaviruses (PyVs) have been considered both genetically stable and highly host-restricted in their mammalian hosts. In this study, we have identified multiple cases of host-switching events of PyVs by large scale surveillance in diverse bat species collected in China. These host-switching events occurred between bat families living in the same colony, indicating that a large population with frequent contacts between different bat species may represent an ecological niche facilitating PyV host-switching. The cases studied involved members of bats from several families, including horseshoe bats, which were previously found to harbor a number of highly virulent viruses to both humans and domestic animals. Our findings have provided evidence that even highly host-specific DNA viruses can transmit between bats of different species and indicate an increased propensity for spillover events involving horseshoe bats. We propose an evolutionary scheme for bat-borne PyVs in which intra-host divergence and host-switching has generated the diverse PyVs in present day bats. This scheme provides a useful model to study the evolution of PyVs in other hosts and, potentially, the modeling of bat zoonoses and the transmission of other DNA viruses in other mammals, including humans.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>