<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2020-03-27</DATELINE><TITLE>Systematic review and critical appraisal of prediction models for diagnosis and prognosis of COVID-19 infection</TITLE><BODY>Objective: To review and critically appraise published and preprint reports of models that aim to predict either (i) presence of existing COVID-19 infection, or (ii) future complications in individuals already diagnosed with COVID-19. Any models to identify subjects at risk for COVID-19 in the general population were also included. Design: Rapid systematic review and critical appraisal of prediction models for diagnosis or prognosis of COVID-19 infection. Data sources: PubMed, EMBASE via Ovid, Arxiv, medRxiv and bioRxiv until 13th March 2020. Study selection: Studies that developed or validated a multivariable COVID-19 related prediction model. Two authors independently screened titles and abstracts. Data extraction: Data from included studies were extracted independently by at least two authors based on the CHARMS checklist, and risk of bias was assessed using PROBAST. Data were extracted on various domains including the participants, predictors, outcomes, data analysis, and prediction model performance. Results: 1916 titles were screened. Of these, 15 studies describing 19 prediction models were included for data extraction and critical appraisal. We identified three models to predict hospital admission from pneumonia and other events (as a proxy for covid-19 pneumonia) in the general population; nine diagnostic models to detect COVID-19 infection in symptomatic individuals (seven of which were deep learning models for COVID-19 diagnosis utilising computed tomography (CT) results); and seven prognostic models for predicting mortality risk, or length of hospital stay. None of the 15 studies used data on COVID-19 cases outside of China. Predictors included in more than one of the 19 models were: age, sex, comorbidities, C-reactive protein, lymphocyte markers (percentage or neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio), lactate dehydrogenase, and features derived from CT images. Reported C-index estimates for the prediction models ranged from 0.73 to 0.81 in those for the general population (reported for all 3 general population models), from 0.81 to > 0.99 in those for diagnosis (reported for 5 of the 9 diagnostic models), and from 0.90 to 0.98 in those for prognosis (reported for 4 of the 7 prognostic models). All studies were rated at high risk of bias, mostly because of non-representative selection of control patients, exclusion of patients who had not experienced the event of interest by the end of the study, and poor statistical analysis, including high risk of model overfitting. Reporting quality varied substantially between studies. A description of the study population and intended use of the models was absent in almost all reports, and calibration of predictions was rarely assessed. Conclusion: COVID-19 related prediction models for diagnosis and prognosis are quickly entering the academic literature through publications and preprint reports, aiming to support medical decision making in a time where this is needed urgently. Many models were poorly reported and all appraised as high risk of bias. We call for immediate sharing of the individual participant data from COVID-19 studies worldwide to support collaborative efforts in building more rigously developed and validated COVID-19 related prediction models. The predictors identified in current studies should be considered for potential inclusion in new models. We also stress the need to adhere to methodological standards when developing and evaluating COVID-19 related predictions models, as unreliable predictions may cause more harm than benefit when used to guide clinical decisions about COVID-19 in the current pandemic.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>