Surgery of intractable temporal lobe epilepsy presented with structural lesions. Structural lesions are found in about 30% of surgical specimens resected for intractable temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Detailed presurgical evaluations can identify the epileptogenic foci, the structural lesions and their correlation. Different surgical approaches have variable seizure control outcomes.The preoperative investigations for the intractable TLE consisted of serial electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings, long-term EEG/video monitoring with sphenoidal electrodes, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), positron emission tomography with fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) and neuropsychological assessment. Among the 217 patients who underwent anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL) for TLE at Taipei Veterans General Hospital between 1987 and 1998, 47 (21.7%) had structural lesions in the resected specimen. The patients were divided into neoplastic (n = 35) and vascular (n = 12) groups, based on the pathological findings.In the neoplastic group, the interictal scalp-sphenoidal EEG recordings were abnormal in all 35 cases and lateralizing in 30 (85.7%). MRI revealed tumor growth within the temporal lobe in 26 patients (74.3%). FDG-PET was performed on 17 patients. Fifteen (88.2%) of them revealed unilateral mesial temporal lobe hypometabolism. In the vascular group, the interictal EEG tracings revealed unilateral mesial temporal lobe spikes in 11 patients (91.6%). MRI revealed abnormal enhanced lesions within the temporal lobes in all 12 patients. FDG-PET was available for 7 patients, 6 (86%) of whom had unilateral mesial temporal lobe hypometabolism. At the last follow-up (range 2-10 years, with a mean period of 4.2 years), 25 patients (73%) in the neoplastic group became and remained seizure-free postoperatively, 3 (9%) had fewer than 3 attacks per year. Among the vascular group, all 12 patients became and remained seizure-free after surgery.For intractable TLE with structural lesions, detailed presurgical evaluations are mandatory to identify the concordance of the lesions and the epileptogenic foci. Standard ATL with removal of the lesion may offer good seizure control postoperatively.