AAFP-AAHA: feline life stage guidelines. Cats have become the most popular pet in the United States, yet statistics about veterinary care for cats remain troubling. Although most owners consider their cats to be family members, cats are substantially underserved, compared with dogs. In 2006, owners took their dogs to veterinarians more than twice as often as cats, averaging 2.3 times/year, compared with 1.1 times/year for cats, and significantly more dogs (58%) than cats (28%) were seen by a veterinarian one or more times/year. Cat owners often express a belief that cats 'do not need medical care'. Two reasons for this misconception are that signs of illness are often difficult to detect, and cats are perceived to be self-sufficient.(2) One role of the veterinarian is to develop a partnership with cat owners that will pave the way for a lifelong health care plan. These guidelines aim to outline an evidence-based life stage wellness program to aid the veterinary medical team in delivering the best comprehensive care for cats. Specific goals are to provide: *Recommendations for optimal health care for cats throughout the different life stages. *Practical suggestions and tools to facilitate improved veterinary visits and to enhance the client-veterinarian clinical encounter. *A foundation from which to access sources of additional information.Distinct life stages (age groups) in cats are not well defined, in part because individual animals and body systems age at different rates, a process that is influenced by many factors. These guidelines follow one convenient classification (see box below). These age designations help to focus attention on the physical and behavioral changes that occur at different stages (eg, congenital defects in kittens, obesity prevention in the junior cat). It must be recognized, however, that any age groupings are inevitably arbitrary demarcations along a spectrum, and not absolutes. EVIDENCE-BASED HEALTH CARE: Supporting references for specific recommendations are supplied where possible, and any previously published guidelines on particular topics are referred to where relevant. Readers should note, however, that the guidelines panel was hampered in its efforts by the relative paucity of disease incidence data by age group that is available, and there is an urgent need for research to guide the future of evidence-based feline health care.