<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-07-31</DATELINE><TITLE>Change of influenza pandemics because of climate change: Complex network simulations</TITLE><BODY>Introduction Airborne influenza virus transmission is depending on climate. Infected individuals are able to travel to any country in the world within one day. In this study we combine these two insights to investigate the influence of climate change on pandemic spreading patterns of airborne infectious diseases, like influenza. Well-known recent examples for pandemics are severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS, 2002/2003) and H1N1 (Influenza A virus subtype, 2009), which have demonstrated the vulnerability of a strongly connected world. Methods Our study is based on a complex network approach including the following datasets: –global air traffic data (from openflights.org) with information on airports, direct flight connections, and airplane types; –global population grid [from Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC), NASA]; –WATCH-Forcing-Data-ERA-Interim (WFDEI) climate reanalysis data (1980–2015) and RCP6.0 climate projection data (2016–2040): temperature, specific humidity, surface air pressure, water vapour pressure. We use the dependency between water vapour pressure and influenza transmission rate to give every location around the globe a unique transmission rate time series from 1980 until 2040. Local disease development is simulated with a stochastic SEIR compartmental model. All individuals (including infectious ones) are able to migrate from location to location via air traffic to simulate global dissemination of the virus. Results Our results show which regions are most vulnerable to climate change in terms of influenza pandemics towards key target locations (defined by highest degree, highest population, highest betweenness centrality). Furthermore, we point out the influence of climate change on pandemics from 1980 until 2040. A significant trend in the pandemic rate of spreading can be seen on a global scale. Climate change causes an influenza pandemic to proceed 5 days slower (global average) in the year 2040 compared to the year 1980. This trend varies from country to country. For example, pandemics originating from Chad show an accelerated (6 days faster) spread. Conclusion The presented results focus on the effect that climate change has on spreading patterns of airborne infectious diseases. The change from 1980 until 2040 of important influencing variables like population distribution, varying air traffic, vaccine research, hygiene, and healthcare are neglected to separate the impact of climate change.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>