<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2004-03-31</DATELINE><TITLE>Hypothesis links emergence of chloroquine-resistant malaria and other intracellular pathogens and suggests a new strategy for treatment of diseases caused by intracellular parasites</TITLE><BODY>Abstract Chloroquine and related anti-malarial drugs appear to promote apoptosis in T-cells by suppressing NF-kappa-B, which enhances the expression of anti-apoptotic proteins (e.g., Bcl-2). Thus, chloroquine has found applications in autoimmune diseases where it apparently facilitates apoptosis of abnormally persistent T-cell clones. The mode of action of chloroquine in prevention of malaria is not known, but it may be to minimize replication of the parasite in the liver cells, which occurs before invasion of the erythrocytes, by facilitating premature apoptosis of the infected host cells. After introduction of chloroquine in the 1950s world-wide for prophylactic use, chloroquine-resistant malaria emerged. Here it is hypothesized that concurrent with emergence of chloroquine-resistant malaria (presumably with enhanced anti-apoptotic capabilities), other intracellular parasites have evolved to enhance their ability to prevent apoptosis in host cells. Two examples of viral diseases that have emerged from areas of high incidence of chloroquine-resistant malaria are AIDS from HIV and SARS from coronavirus. The hypothesis holds that prophylactic exposure to pro-apoptotic chloroquine drugs caused natural selection for strains of viruses and other parasites that have enhanced anti-apoptotic abilities. When transmitted to host organisms that are not under the influence of the pro-apoptotic drug, the new “anti-apoptotic” strains may cause unexpected diseases. In the case of SARS, the coronavirus appears to have accessed a new niche where it proves to be lethal to its host. In the case of AIDS, the HIV (which has had a long-term symbiotic relationship with primates) has run amuck because the infected cells are now substantially more tolerant to the toxins (i.e., resistant to apoptosis) that they secrete than the uninfected bystander cells, which are not unusually resistant to apoptosis. A corollary to the hypothesis is that if the level of resistance to apoptosis in the infected cells were no higher than the level of resistance in the bystander cells, then the infected cells would preferentially kill themselves through apoptosis. It appears that in the case of HIV, the increased resistance to apoptosis is provided by expression of Bcl-2 and suppression of p53. Hence, drugs that suppresses Bcl-2 or restore p53 function might be effective in restoring the parity of resistance to apoptosis between infected and uninfected cells. Currently, an antisense drug targeting Bcl-2 (G3139/GenasenseTM, Genta, Inc.) is in late-stage cancer trials and may be on the market for those indications in months. It would be interesting to try these drugs against various intracellular parasites including HIV. This approach to prevent or eliminate active infections might be particularly attractive against a range of parasites (virus, bacteria, protozoa, fungus) when safe and effective vaccines are not available.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>