Value of regional cerebral blood flow in the evaluation of chronic liver disease and subclinical hepatic encephalopathy. Regional changes in cerebral blood flow in patients with chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and subclinical hepatic encephalopathy were investigated in the present study using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT).Twenty patients with cirrhosis, 11 patients with chronic hepatitis, and nine healthy controls were included in the study. Cerebral SPECT were obtained for all patients. The percentages of cerebral blood flow of 14 regions to the cerebellar blood flow were determined. Only the patients with cirrhosis underwent psychometric evaluation: visual evoked potentials (VEP) measurements and electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings along with blood levels of albumin, bilirubin, and ammonia were measured and prothrombin time was determined in cirrhotic patients. These patients were classified according to the Child-Pugh classification.Among cirrhotic patients, six had abnormal results in VEP studies, 11 in psychometric tests and with six in EEG evaluation. Any abnormality in psychometric tests and/or VEP studies is taken as the main criterion subclinical hepatic encephalopathy was detected in 12 of 20 patients. According to SPECT results in patients with subclinical encephalopathy, a statistically significant decrease in cerebral blood flow in right thalamus and nearly significant decrease in left thalamus were observed. Regional blood flow was significantly higher in the frontal lobes of patients with cirrhosis when compared with healthy controls. Similarly, cerebral blood flow in frontal and cingulate regions was significantly higher in patients with chronic hepatitis than in healthy controls. There was no relationship between cerebral blood flow and blood levels of ammonia or Child-Pugh score, in cirrhotic patients.Significant changes in cerebral blood flow may be present in chronic liver diseases and the authors suggest that the measurement of changes in cerebral blood flow might be useful in detecting subclinical hepatic encephalopathy.