Molecular cloning and expression of a novel Kazal-type serine proteinase inhibitor gene from Zhikong scallop Chlamys farreri, and the inhibitory activity of its recombinant domain. Serine proteinase inhibitors (SPIs) play important roles in host physiological and immunological processes in all multicellular organisms. A novel Kazal-type SPI gene was cloned from the Zhikong scallop Chlamys farreri (designated as CfKZSPI) by expressed sequence tag (EST) and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) approaches. The full-length cDNA of CfKZSPI was of 1788 nucleotides with a canonical polyadenylation signal sequence AATAAA and a polyA tail, and an open reading frame (ORF) encoding a polypeptide of 509 amino acids with a putative signal peptide of 22 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence of CfKZSPI contained 12 tandem Kazal domains with high similarity to other Kazal-type SPIs. The temporal expression of CfKZSPI in hemocytes after Vibrio anguillarum challenge was recorded by quantitative real-time RT-PCR. The relative mRNA expression level of CfKZSPI was up-regulated and reached 43.6-fold at 3h post-challenge. After a decrease at 6h, the expression level increased again and reached 207.8-fold at 12h post-challenge. The 12th Kazal domain of CfKZSPI was recombined into pET-32a(+) and expressed in Escherichia coli Rosetta-gami (DE3) to investigate its inhibitory activity. The purified recombinant protein (rCfKZSPI-12) showed significant inhibitory activity against trypsin but no activity against thrombin. When the molar ratio of inhibitor to trypsin reached 1:1, almost 90% of the enzyme activity could be inhibited, which suggested that one molecule of rCfKZSPI-12 was able to inhibit one molecule of trypsin. Kinetics analysis with Dixon plot showed that the inhibition constant (Ki) of rCfKZSPI-12 to trypsin was 173 nmol L(-1). These results indicated that CfKZSPI was a novel Kazal-type SPI with significant inhibitory activity against trypsin, and was suspected to be involved in scallop immune response.