Accuracy of 18-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography in the pretherapeutic detection of occult para-aortic node involvement in patients with a locally advanced cervical carcinoma. Patients with locally advanced cervical cancer (LACC) are usually treated with concurrent chemoradiotherapy. Extended-field chemoradiotherapy is indicated in case of para-aortic node involvement at initial assessment. 18-Fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography (18-FDG PET/CT) is currently considered to be the most accurate method of detection of node or distant metastases. The goal of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of PET at detecting para-aortic lymph node metastases in LACC patients with a negative morphological imaging.Patients from five French institutions with LACC and both negative morphologic (magnetic resonance imaging, CT scan) and functional (PET or PET/CT) findings at the para-aortic level and distantly were submitted to a systematic infrarenal para-aortic node dissection either by laparoscopy or laparotomy. On the basis of pathological results, sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of PET/CT were assessed for para-aortic lymph node involvement.A total of 125 LACC patients (stage IB2-IVA disease with two local recurrences) fulfilled the inclusion criteria. All had an ilio-infrarenal para-aortic lymphadenectomy, either by laparoscopy (n = 117) or laparotomy (n = 8). Twenty-one patients (16.8%) had pathologically proven para-aortic metastases. Among them, 14 (66.7%) had negative PET/CT. Overall morbidity of surgery was 7.2%. All but one of the complications were mild and did not delay chemoradiotherapy. Sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive value of the PET/CT were 33.3, 94.2, 53.8, and 87.5%, respectively, for the detection of microscopic lymph node metastases.Laparoscopic staging surgery seems warranted in LACC patients with negative PET scan who are candidates for definitive concurrent chemoradiotherapy or exenteration.