Molecular magnetic resonance imaging. Molecular MRI (mMRI) is a special implementation of Molecular Imaging for the non-invasive visualisation of biological processes at the cellular and molecular level. More specifically, mMRI comprises the contrast agent-mediated alteration of tissue relaxation times for the detection and localisation of molecular disease markers (such as cell surface receptors, enzymes or signaling molecules), cells (e.g. lymphocytes, stem cells) or therapeutic drugs (e.g. liposomes, viral particles). MRI yields topographical, anatomical maps functional MRI (fMRI) provides rendering of physiologic functions and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) reveals the distribution patterns of some specific metabolites. mMRI provides an additional level of information at the molecular or cellular level, thus extending MRI further beyond the anatomical and physiological level. These advances brought by mMRI are mandatory for MRI to be competitive in the age of molecular medicine. mMRI is already today increasingly used for research purposes, e.g. to facilitate the examination of cell migration, angiogenesis, apoptosis or gene expression in living organisms. In medical diagnostics, mMRI will pave the way toward a significant improvement in early detection of disease, therapy planning or monitoring of outcome and will therefore bring significant improvement in the medical treatment for patients.In general, Molecular Imaging demands high sensitivity equipment, capable of quantitative measurements to detect probes that interact with targets at the pico- or nanomolar level. The challenge to detect such sparse targets can be exemplified with cell surface receptors, a common target for molecular imaging. At high expression levels (bigger than 106 per cell) the receptor concentration is approx. 10(15) per ml, i.e. the concentration is in the micromole range. Many targets, however, are expressed in even considerably lower concentrations. Therefore the most sensitive modalities, namely nuclear imaging (PET and SPECT) have always been at the forefront of Molecular Imaging, and many nuclear probes in clinical use today are already designed to detect molecular mechanisms (such as FDG, detecting high glucose metabolism). In recent years however, Molecular Imaging has commanded attention from beyond the field of nuclear medicine. Further imaging modalities to be considered for molecular imaging primarily include optical imaging, MRI and ultrasound.