Recent and future evolutions in NeuroSPECT with particular emphasis on the synergistic use and fusion of imaging modalities. Recent and future evolutions in neuroSPECT apply to radiopharmaceuticals techniques and the synergistic use of different imaging modalities in the work-up of neurological disorders. The introduction of Technetium labelled perfusion tracers, which could pass the intact blood-brain barrier, together with the implementation of the tomographic principle, by making the conventional gamma camera rotating, enabled estimation of regional cerebral blood flow and indirectly of local brain metabolism. In addition at present Thallium-201 and Tc-99m sestaMIBI allow functional detection of viable tumor tissue, without interference from previous surgery or radiotherapy as seen using CT-scan or MRI. In neurology this has led to the recognition of SPECT by the American Academy of Neurology (Therapeutics and technology subcommittee) as an established or promising tool in major neurological disorders such as dementia, stroke and epilepsy, while other domains such as brain oncology are considered investigational. With regard to radiopharmaceuticals, recent evolutions mainly include the development of mostly Iodine-123 labelled receptor ligands, some of which are already commercially available. For instrumentation advances consist e.g. of multidetector systems equipped with fanbeam collimators, attenuation and scatter correction or coincidence detection. Given the present role for nuclear neurology it may be expected that these additional radiopharmaceutical and technical innovations will continue to stimulate the development of SPECT of the brain. The synergistic use of several imaging techniques such as CT, (functional) MRI, source imaging, SPECT and PET represents a multimodal holistic approach to probe cerebral functions for research and clinical purposes. Clinical indications, in which this synergistic use is illustrated include e.g. support of the clinical diagnosis of dementia of the Alzheimer type, presurgical ictal detection of seizure focus, detection of acute ischemia and differential diagnosis between radiation necrosis and brain tumor recurrence. The synergistic use of imaging modalities, optimally applied using image fusion, allows to overcome the intrinsic limitations and to enhance the specific advantages of the different approaches as it leads to increased precision and accuracy, as well for spatial anatomofunctional correlation as for quantification.