Persistent transforming growth factor beta 1 expression may predict peritoneal fibrosis in CAPD patients with frequent peritonitis occurrence. The efficiency of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) depends on the permeability of the peritoneal membrane. Peritoneal fibrosis (PF) causes the loss of dialytic function. Several studies have indicated that PF is closely related to the proliferation of peritoneal fibroblasts and the deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM). Transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF beta 1) plays a major role in stimulating ECM deposition. Frequent peritonitis occurrence may cause persistent TGF beta 1 mRNA expression. In an attempt to search for a factor related to PF, we designed a longitudinal study to measure TGF beta 1 levels in dialysate and TGF beta 1 mRNA expression in peritoneal mononuclear cells (PMNCs) from peritoneal dialysate before, at the onset of and once a week during peritonitis and after peritonitis in patients with high peritonitis occurrence (HPO) and patients with low peritonitis occurrence (LPO). Fifteen patients with a LPO rate and 5 patients with a HPO rate were followed up longitudinally. Meanwhile, TGF beta 1 levels and TGF beta 1 mRNA expression were augmented in peritoneal dialytic fluid before, during, and after the episodes of peritonitis. Peritoneal permeability was evaluated by the peritoneal equilibration test (PET). The results revealed that in the LPO group, TGF beta 1 and TGF beta 1 mRNA were detectable at early stages of peritonitis, but the levels decreased rapidly and were undetectable 2 weeks after peritonitis. On the other hand, in the HPO group, TGF beta 1 and TGF beta 1 mRNA persisted for a long time. We could detect TGF beta 1 and TGF beta 1 mRNA in dialytic fluid and PMNCs even 2, 3, and 4 weeks after episodes of peritonitis. When compared with that of the first or second episode of peritonitis, peritoneal function evaluated with the PET was found to obviously deteriorate at the third episode of peritonitis. These findings were confirmed by an in situ hybridization technique to evaluate the relationship between TGF beta 1 mRNA expression and PF from biopsied peritoneal specimens. These findings suggest that the high TGF beta 1 levels in the dialysate are related to an increased expression of TGF beta 1 in the peritoneum. Persistent TGF beta 1 expression in the peritoneum may serve as a useful parameter in predicting PF in CAPD patients with frequent peritonitis occurrence.