Sonographic evaluation of focal nodular hyperplasias (FNH) of the liver with a transpulmonary galactose-based contrast agent (Levovist). Focal nodular hyperplasias (FNH) are hypervascular, benign focal liver lesions. Differentiation of FNH from other focal liver lesions is of clinical importance. The purpose of this study was to examine the impact of a new, transpulmonary echo-enhancing agent SHU 508A (Levovist) and recent Doppler techniques in the sonographic evaluation of FNH. 43 patients with 61 focal nodular hyperplasias of the liver were examined with grey scale ultrasound and power Doppler ultrasound. Levovist, a galactose-air-microbubble suspension was administered intravenously in all patients, either by bolus injection (400 mg ml-1) or continuous pump-infusion (300 mg ml-1). Visualization of the feeding vessels and vascularity of the lesions were evaluated. The resistance indexes (RI) in the feeding vessel and the hepatic artery were assessed and compared with the diameters of the FNH. The mean diameter of FNH was 4.3 cm (+/- 1.0). Echo enhanced power Doppler ultrasound was superior to unenhanced power Doppler ultrasound in the detection of the feeding artery (85% vs. 98%) in FNH and depicted the internal vascular architecture more clearly, especially in lesions located in the left lobe of the liver. Lesions smaller than 3 cm did not show a characteristic vascular architecture with echo enhanced Doppler ultrasound. The resistance index of the feeding artery (mean: 0.51 +/- 0.08) is significantly (p < 0.0001) lower than that of the hepatic artery (mean 0.65 +/- 0.06) with a mean difference of -0.14 +/- 0.01 in the same patient. The RI of the feeding artery significantly decreased as the size of the FNH increased, whereas RI differences between the hepatic artery and the feeding artery increased with lesion size. Intravenous (i.v.) bolus injection of the contrast agent will depict the hypervascular nature of FNH more clearly than i.v. infusion, although the latter will significantly prolong the diagnostic window. In conclusion, i.v. infusion of Levovist improves the visualization of the feeding artery and the radiating vascular architecture in FNH located in the left lobe of the liver due to improved signal-to-noise ratio and results in more effective suppression of motion artefacts. Although echo enhanced Doppler ultrasound improves the detection of the low resistance arterial feeding vessel in small FNH, it will not, however, reveal a specific vascular pattern in these lesions.