Factors influencing ulcer healing in patients with combined arterial and venous insufficiency. The purpose of this study was to determine the effectiveness of treatment of patients with combined arterial and venous insufficiency (CAVI), evaluate variables associated with successful ulcer healing, and better define criteria for interventional therapy.We retrospectively reviewed the records of patients treated at four institutions from 1995 to 2000 with lower extremity ulcers and CAVI. Arterial disease was defined as an ankle/brachial index less than 0.9, absent pedal pulse, and at least one in-line arterial stenosis > 50% by arteriography. Venous insufficiency was defined as characteristic clinical findings and duplex findings of either reflux or thrombus in the deep or superficial system. Clinical, demographic, and hemodynamic parameters were statistically analyzed with multiple regression analysis and correlated with ulcer healing and limb salvage.Fifty-nine patients with CAVI were treated for nonhealing ulcers that had been present from 1 to 39 months (mean, 6.4 months). All patients had edema. The mean ankle/brachial index was 0.55 (range, 0-0.86). Treatment included elastic compression and leg elevation in all patients and greater saphenous vein stripping in patients with superficial venous reflux. Fifty-two patients underwent arterial bypass grafting, three underwent an endarterectomy, one underwent superficial femoral artery percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, and three underwent primary below-knee amputation. For purposes of analysis, patients were divided into four groups according to the pattern of arterial and venous disease and the success of arterial reconstruction. Group 1 consisted of 22 patients with a patent arterial graft, superficial venous incompetence, and normal deep veins. Group 2 consisted of seven patients with a patent graft, superficial reflux, and deep venous reflux. Group 3 included 22 patients with a patent graft and deep venous thrombosis (DVT), and group 4 included eight patients with an occluded arterial graft. Follow-up ranged from 2 to 47 months (mean, 21.6 months). Forty-nine patients remained alive, and 10 died of unrelated causes. During follow-up, 48 of the 56 treated arteries remained patent and eight occluded. Thirty-four ulcers (58%) healed, 18 ulcers (31%) did not heal, and 7 patients (12%) required below-knee amputation for nonhealed ulcers and uncontrolled infection. No patient with graft occlusion was healed, and 12 ulcers persisted despite successful arterial reconstruction. Twenty-one (78%) of 27 patients undergoing greater saphenous vein stripping were healed, but none of these patients had DVT. The mean interval from bypass graft to healing was 7.9 months. Thirty-two (68%) of 46 patients without prior DVT were healed, whereas only two (15%) of 13 patients with prior DVT were healed, and this variable, in addition to graft patency, was the only factor statistically significant in predicting healing (P <.05).Ulcers may develop anywhere on the calf or foot in patients with CAVI, and healing requires correction of arterial insufficiency. Patients with prior DVT are unlikely to heal, even with a patent bypass graft. Ulcer healing is a lengthy process and requires aggressive treatment of edema and infection, and successful arterial reconstruction. Patients with a prior DVT are unlikely to benefit from aggressive arterial or venous reconstruction.