Ocular and orbital blood flow velocity in patients with peripheral vascular disease and diabetes treated with intravenous prostaglandin E1. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of intravenous prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) on the flow velocity of the ophthalmic artery and the central retinal artery in patients with peripheral vascular disease manifested by intermittent claudication. The flow velocity of these vessels is frequently decreased in vascular patients. Since these patients were already being treated with PGE1 for their intermittent claudication, the authors wanted to evaluate the effect on the flow velocity of the ocular vessels as well. A randomized 21-week study of two groups of vascular patients was performed. The first group had intermittent claudication. The second group had intermittent claudication and were also diabetics. Both groups were treated with intravenous PGE1 for their intermittent claudication. Using the color Doppler, the flow velocities of the ophthalmic artery and central retinal artery were measured before and after the intravenous treatment. Before treatment, the flow velocity of the ophthalmic artery and the central retinal artery was decreased when compared to that in the normals. After treatment, there was a significant increase in the systolic and diastolic phases of the flow velocity in both arteries. The systolic flow velocity increased by as much as 40%, and the diastolic flow velocity increased by as much as 80%. The flow velocities of the ophthalmic artery and the central retinal artery are frequently decreased in certain ocular diseases, and this decreased flow may contribute to the ocular pathology. If intravenous PGE1 is able to increase the flow velocity of these vessels in patients with peripheral vascular disease, it is possible that it is also able to increase the flow velocity of these vessels in patients with ocular disease as well. Intravenous PGE1 may prove to be a useful adjunct therapy in eyes when ischemia is part of the pathology.