Vasonit retard in the treatment of intermittent claudication in patients with obliterating diseases of the lower extremities. This paper deals with an open no incomparable study of the efficacy of vasonit retard in the treatment of intermittent claudication in patients suffering from arterial pathology. The efficacy and tolerance of vasonit retard were investigated for two months at the A.V. Vishnevsky Institute of Surgery, RAMS, and at 20 vascular departments of Russia (Moscow, Sankt-Peterburg, Nizhny Novgorod, Perm, Yaroslavl, Volgograd, Omsk, Irkutsk, Chelyabinsk, Voronezh, Rostov-on-Don, Ekaterinburg). The study accrued 25 patients treated at the A.V. Vishnevsky Institute of Surgery, RAMS, and 348 patients treated on the basis of 20 vascular departments of Russia, The basic criterion for inclusion into the study was the presence in the patient of intermittent claudication, corresponding to extremity ischemia, degree IIA end, IIB, according to the A.V.Pokrovsky classification. The treatment by vasonit retard was conducted outpatiently. The drug was administered in a daily dose of 1200 mg for 2 months. After treatment the ankle/brachial index along the posterior tibial artery and dorsalis pedis artery rose by over 17% in the group treated pt the Institute of Surgery and by over 21.5% in the group which participated in the multicenter study. The minimal pain-free distance increased by 60% and 115% respectively. The maximal pain-free distance rose by 37.7% and 98.4% respectively. A 25% abatement of the pain intensity (according to the pain score) was recorded in the group seen at the Institute of Surgery and a 36.1% pain abatement in the group included into the multicenter study. No complications leading to drug discontinuation were marked. Thus, talking into account the clinical evidence and the data supplied by instrumental diagnostic techniques, it is necessary to admit that vasonit retard is an effective drug for the treatment of patients suffering from intermittent claudication.