Qualitative and quantitative evaluation of equine respiratory mechanics by impulse oscillometry. The long-established conventional reference technique (CRT) for measuring respiratory mechanics in horses lacks sensitivity and there is a need for further refinement in new technology, such as the impulse oscillometry system (IOS).To evaluate the potential use of the IOS as a clinical respiratory function test and compare it to the current CRT in horses suffering from common upper and lower airway dysfunctions.Six healthy horses were tested before and after induction of a unilateral nasal obstruction (UNO) or transient left laryngeal hemiplegia (LLH). Six heaves-affected horses were tested in clinical remission and during a heaves crisis, before and after nebulisation of cumulative doses of a bronchodilator therapy (ipratropium bromide IPB).As opposed to the CRT, the IOS was able to detect partial upper airway obstruction (UAO) caused by UNO or LLH in resting horses, without differentiating both conditions. Upper airway obstruction caused an upward shift of resistance (R(rs)) from 5 to 35 Hz without altering reactance (X(rs)). As for the CRT, IOS respiratory parameters measured in heaves-affected horses in crisis differed significantly from values measured during remission. The difference in frequency-dependent behaviour of R(rs) and X(rs) allowed discrimination between upper and lower airway obstructions. Bronchodilator treatment induced significant dose-dependent changes in X(rs) at 5 and 10 Hz, from the first dose. Total pulmonary resistance (RL) and R(rs) at 5 Hz were affected from the second dose and displayed similar sensitivity. Although post treatment RL values were comparable to remission, R(rs) and X(rs) remained significantly different, characterising persistent peripheral obstruction.The IOS was more sensitive than the CRT in detecting partial UAO in resting horses and persistent post treatment peripheral dysfunction in heaves-affected horses. The IOS is a sensitive test that provides graded quantitative and qualitative information on disease-induced respiratory dysfunctions as well as on treatment efficiency in horses.The IOS could represent a practical and sensitive alternative respiratory function test for routine clinical investigations of common airway obstructive diseases and therapy in horses.