Accuracy of multidetector computed tomographic angiography for detecting hepatic artery complications after liver transplantation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of multidetector computed tomographic angiography (MDCTA) for detecting hepatic artery complications after liver transplantation.Between July 2001 and September 2006, 212 patients underwent liver transplantation including 110 (41 female and 69 male patients) of mean age, 24 years (range=6 months to 66 years) who were assessed with MDCTA. First, arterial phase images obtained after intravenous injection of 150 mL of contrast at a rate of 4 mL/s were acquired using the bolus triggering technique. Then portal and late-phase images were obtained. Axial and coronal maximum intensity projection (MIP) images and volume-rendered images were produced from the axial image data. Arterial vascular complications were noted. Stenosis was defined as severe (>75%), moderate (>or=50%), or mild (<50%) according to its diameter. Twenty-nine of the 38 individuals with hepatic artery complications detected by MDCTA had correlative digital subtraction angiography (DSA). Seven of 110 patients with normal hepatic artery and venous pathologies in MDCTA also had DSA to investigate venous complications.MDCTA showed hepatic artery complications in 38 of the 110 patients who were assessed with this modality. DSA confirmed the MDCTA findings in all but 1 of the 29 patients assessed with catheter angiography. Fourteen of the 38 individuals also underwent percutaneous interventions and treatment. Fifteen patients had early hepatic artery complications, and 23 late hepatic artery complications. The most common early complications were thrombosis (66.6%) and stenosis (26.6%). The most common late complications were stenosis (56.5%) and thrombosis (26%). If we evaluate the early and late complications, the incidence of late complications was greater than that of the early complications (61% vs 39%). There was no statistically significant difference in cadaveric and living donor liver transplants for early versus late or for type of complications.MDCTA is noninvasive imaging modality that accurately shows a variety of vascular complications after liver transplantation. We suggest that if we suspect any vascular complication with Doppler ultrasound, we must perform MDCTA for diagnosis. If we detect severe/moderate stenosis, the patient must undergo DSA.