Comparative study of atherosclerotic parameters in Mongolian and Japanese patients with hypertension and diabetes mellitus. Cardiovascular disease is becoming increasingly more problematic in Mongolia. The cardioankle vascular index (CAVI) and circulating C-reactive protein (CRP) are new atherosclerosis-related parameters, but no comparative studies of atherosclerotic parameters including CAVI and CRP are available between Mongolian and Japanese populations, such as disease populations of hypertension (HT) and diabetes mellitus (DM). Our study objective was to examine atherosclerotic profiles in HT and DM patients in both countries.From a hospital-based population, 156 Mongolian outpatients with HT and DM (men: 46%, mean age: 57.1 years) and 156 age- and sex-matched Japanese outpatients with HT and DM (men: 46%, age: 57.7) were recruited. Body mass index (BMI), heart rate (HR), blood pressure (BP), pulse pressure (PP), ankle-brachial index (ABI), ultrasonographic carotid intima-media thickness (IMT), blood total cholesterol (T-Cho), glucose, insulin and homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) were measured, in addition to CAVI and CRP.The levels of BMI, HR, BP, PP, insulin and IMT were significantly higher and T-Cho and glucose were significantly lower in the Mongolian patients in comparison to the Japanese patients. Particularly, the levels of CAVI (mean+/-SD) (8.1+/-1.1 vs. 8.8+/-1.2) and CRP(median[interquartile range])(0.05[0.03-0.12]vs. 0.19[0.09-0.42]mg/dL)were significantly higher in Mongolian than Japanese patients. These significant differences remained unchanged, even after taking into account multiple variables, including BP and HOMA-IR. In addition, except for CAVI in the subgroup of DM, generally similar trends regarding atherosclerotic parameters were seen in the subgroup by sex and disease (HT, DM and HT plus DM).These findings suggest that Mongolian patients with HT and DM may be at higher risk for cardiovascular disease than Japanese patients.