Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for innominate artery stenosis and total occlusion of subclavian artery in Takayasu's-type arteritis. Previous reports describe high success rates achieved by dilating subclavian artery stenoses. Attempts at angioplasty for total occlusions have been uniformly unsuccessful. No previous case successfully recanalizing total subclavian artery occlusion was found after an extensive literature search. Modified guidewire technique facilitated safe crossing of the occlusion.A 34 year old female had a history of dizziness and presyncope.  She had many risk factors for atherosclerosis including smoking 30 packs of cigarettes/year, using oral contraceptives (OCs) for almost 10 years, somewhat elevated blood sugars, strong family history of heart disease and diabetes, and hypertension.  During an examination in 1983, she had an elevated blood pressure in the right arm but a reading could not be found in the left arm.  The physician heard a grade III rough, blowing systolic bruit over the right subclavian artery moving into the right carotid artery.  Pulses of both carotid arteries were normal.  Heart sounds were normal. While the right brachial and radial pulses were fine, there were none on the left side.  Laboratory tests showed a serum cholesterol of 258 mg/dl, a fasting blood sugar of 92 mg/dl, a white blood cell count of 8400, and a normal differential count.  The arch aortogram showed a 50-60% stenosis beginning at the innominate artery and a completely occluded left subclavian artery at its origin.  Physicians performed an aortoinnominate bypass operation using a Dacron prosthetic graft.  This operation alleviated the symptoms, but 2 years later she had bilateral dysesthesias in her upper arms and vertigo returned.  Her right arm became more and more limp while her left arm did so mildly.  The aortoinnominate graft and the left subclavian artery were occluded.  Physicians did coronary angioplasty using the right transfemoral route and corrected both lesions in her brachiocephalic system.  they used a technique which eased safe crossing of the occluded subclavian segment (covering the catheter tip with a J curve guidewire).  Following the operation, the patient had superb brachial and radial pulses in both arms.  Physicians advised her to discontinue using OCs and tobacco products.  At months 1 and 5, the symptoms were gone and vital signs were fine.