I-131 anti-B1 therapy/tracer uptake ratio using a new procedure for fusion of tracer images to computed tomography images. In patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma being treated by I-131-radiolabeled anti-B1 monoclonal antibody, we test the hypothesis that the activity taken up in tumors during therapy is the same as that observed during tracer evaluation, except for scaling by the ratio of administered activities. Chemotherapy-relapsed patients are imaged only with planar conjugate views, whereas previously untreated patients are imaged with planar conjugate views and with single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The SPECT tracer activity quantification requires computed tomography (CT) to SPECT image fusion, for which we devised a new procedure: first, the tracer SPECT images are fused to the therapy SPECT images. Then, that transformation is combined with the therapy SPECT-to-CT transformation. We also use (a) the same volumes of interest defined on CT for both tracer and therapy image sets, and (b) a SPECT counts-to-activity conversion factor that adapts to background and rotation radius. We define R as the ratio of therapy activity percentage of infused dose over tracer activity percentage of infused dose at 2-3 days after monoclonal antibody infusion. For 31 chemotherapy-relapsed patients, the R ratio for 60 solitary or composite tumors averages 0.931 +/- 0.031. The hypothesis of R being 1 is rejected with greater than 95% confidence. However, the difference from 1 is only 7.4%. The range of R is 0.43-1.55. For seven previously untreated patients, R averages 1.050 +/- 0.050 for 24 solitary tumors evaluated by SPECT. For six of these patients, R averages 0.946 +/- 0.098 for one of these solitary tumors and for five composite tumors, evaluated by conjugate views. Both results agree with the hypothesis that R is 1. The range of R for the SPECT tumors is 0.71 +/- 0.03 to 1.82 +/- 0.53, and for the conjugate view tumors, it is 0.70-1.35. Plots of R versus tumor volume yield small correlation coefficients. That from SPECT approaches a statistically significant difference from zero correlation (P = 0.06). In summary, on average, the tumor percentage of infused dose following tracer administration is predictive of therapeutic percentage of infused dose within 8%. For greater accuracy with individual tumors, however, an intratherapy evaluation is probably necessary because the range of R is large.