Assessment of left ventricular diastolic function with electrocardiography-gated myocardial perfusion SPECT: comparison with multigated equilibrium radionuclide angiography. Technetium-labeled myocardial perfusion tracers allow the simultaneous assessment of myocardial perfusion and left ventricular function by electrocardiography (ECG)-gated myocardial perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). This study evaluates left ventricular systolic and diastolic function by ECG-gated SPECT with the use of higher framing (32 frames per cardiac cycle) data acquisition.After receiving an injection of technetium 99m tetrofosmin, 48 patients with cardiac diseases were examined by ECG-gated myocardial perfusion SPECT with a 3-headed gamma camera. During gated data collection, 32 frames per cardiac cycle were acquired over 360 degrees in 60 steps, each of which consisted of 60 beats. Immediately thereafter, the 32 frames taken at each projection angle were combined into 16-frame and 8-frame data sets. Left ventricular end-diastolic volume (LVEDV, in milliliters), left ventricular end-systolic volume (LVESV, in milliliters), and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF, percentage) were automatically calculated from the 32-frame, 16-frame, and 8-frame gated data sets. Left ventricular time-volume curves from the 3 data sets were generated by Fourier curve fitting analysis with the use of 3 harmonics, and then peak filling rate (PFR, per second) was measured. Twenty-nine patients also underwent multigated equilibrium radionuclide angiography (ERNA) to determine the LVEF and PFR. Combining the 32-frame data into 16-frame and 8-frame data sets from the 48 patients generated a smaller LVEDV and a larger LVESV, and LVEF was significantly lower in accordance with the decreasing number of frames. Compared with ERNA studies (n = 29), the Bland-Altman method showed underestimated LVEFs and larger 95% limits of agreement in lower framing gated SPECT.Left ventricular functional parameters obtained from 32-frame gated SPECT correlated closely with those determined by ERNA studies. ECG-gated SPECT with 32-frame data can provide comprehensive information with which to evaluate many types of cardiac diseases.