Various clinical approaches to minimise complications in peritoneal dialysis. The main reason for a failure of peritoneal dialysis is due to technical problems or infections. By starting PD immediately after the insertion of a dialysis catheter (instead of starting HD before optimal healing of the PD-catheter) it may be easier to achieve acceptance for PD by the patients. An easy and tight access is achieved when inserting the PD-catheter through the rectus muscle, fixing it with three purse string sutures, two of them fixing the inner cuff between the peritoneal membrane and the inner rectus fascia. Thereby early and late leakage will be rare and good drainage is normally achieved besides a low risk for exit site infections. Using Coloplast adhesive insulin can be injected into the PD bags in a simple way even by patients with bad vision. Using ultraviolet light, as additional exchange device (UV-box), the risk for peritonitis is reduced compared to classic manual connection. Using the Y-set or duo-bag system the risk for peritonitis is further lowered. Malfunction by dislocation of the intraperitoneal part of the catheters can often be corrected without surgery using a bent stylet. A controlled study showed that antibiotic prophylactics could significantly reduce the risk for peritonitis in the follow up after insertion of PD catheters. Additionally the risk for peritonitis is reduced using a special connector for the PET-sampling procedures. X-ray of catheter location in the abdominal cavity can be performed by injection of 20-ml contrast media into 100 ml of PD fluid residing in the PD-bag. After mixing, small portions of this fluid can be infused into the abdomen for X-ray determination of the location. An increased ultrafiltration failure during PD may be due to use of beta-blocker medication. After ceasing this medication recovery may occur. Avoiding pets in the room used for PD-exchange may lower the risk for peritonitis further. A devoted nurse and physician will keep up the patients' spirit and help to convert patients not suitable for PD to HD or the other way round. By such measures the incidence of peritonitis can be reduced to 1 in 40 treatment months or less.