Bone metastasis in gastric cancer patients. Bone metastasis from stomach cancer occurs only rarely and it is known to have a very poor prognosis. This study examined the clinical characteristics and prognosis of patients who were diagnosed with stomach cancer and bone metastasis.The subjects were 19 patients who were diagnosed with stomach cancer at Hanyang University Medical Center from June 1992 to August 2010 and they also had bone metastasis. The survival rate according to many clinicopathologic factors was retrospectively analyzed.11 patients out of 18 patients (61%) who received an operation were in stage IV and the most common bone metastasis location was the spine. Bone scintigraphy was mostly used for diagnosing bone metastasis and PET-CT and magnetic resonance imaging were used singly or together. The serum alkaline phosphatase at the time of diagnosis had increased in 12 cases and there were clinical symptoms (bone pain) in 16 cases. Treatment was given to 14 cases and it was mostly radiotherapy. There were 2 cases of discovering bone metastasis at the time of diagnosing stomach cancer. The interval after operation to the time of diagnosing bone metastasis for the 18 cases that received a stomach cancer operation was on average 14.9±17.3 months and the period until death after the diagnosis of bone metastasis was on average 3.8±2.6 months. As a result of univariate survival rate analysis, the group that was treated for bone metastasis had a significantly better survival period when the bone metastasis was singular rather than multiple, as compared to the non-treatment group, yet both factors were not independent prognosis factors on multivariate survival analysis.An examination to confirm the status of bone metastasis when conducting a radio-tracer test after the initial diagnosis and also after an operation is needed for stomach cancer patients, and bone scintigraphy is the most helpfully modality. Making the diagnosis at the early stage and suitable treatments are expected to enhance the survival rate and improve the quality of life even for the patients with bone metastasis.