Initial results of simultaneous PET/MRI experiments with an MRI-compatible silicon photomultiplier PET scanner. The most investigated semiconductor photosensor for MRI-compatible PET detectors is the avalanche photodiode (APD). However, the silicon photomultiplier (SiPM), also called the Geiger-mode APD, is gaining attention in the development of the next generation of PET/MRI systems because the SiPM has much better performance than the APD. We have developed an MRI-compatible PET system based on multichannel SiPM arrays to allow simultaneous PET/MRI.The SiPM PET scanner consists of 12 detector modules with a ring diameter of 13.6 cm and an axial extent of 3.2 cm. In each detector module, 4 multichannel SiPM arrays (with 4 × 4 channels arranged in a 2 × 2 array to yield 8 × 8 channels) were coupled with 20 × 18 Lu(1.9)Gd(0.1)SiO(5):Ce crystals (each crystal is 1.5 × 1.5 × 7 mm) and mounted on a charge division network for multiplexing 64 signals into 4 position signals. Each detector module was enclosed in a shielding box to reduce interference between the PET and MRI scanners, and the temperature inside the box was monitored for correction of the temperature-dependent gain variation of the SiPM. The PET detector signal was routed to the outside of the MRI room and processed with a field programmable gate array-based data acquisition system. MRI compatibility tests and simultaneous PET/MRI acquisitions were performed inside a 3-T clinical MRI system with 4-cm loop receiver coils that were built into the SiPM PET scanner. Interference between the imaging systems was investigated, and phantom and mouse experiments were performed.No radiofrequency interference on the PET signal or degradation in the energy spectrum and flood map was shown during simultaneous PET/MRI. The quality of the MRI scans acquired with and without the operating PET showed only slight degradation. The results of phantom and mouse experiments confirmed the feasibility of this system for simultaneous PET/MRI.Simultaneous PET/MRI was possible with a multichannel SiPM-based PET scanner, with no radiofrequency interference on PET signals or images and only slight degradation of the MRI scans.