Alloplastic augmented femoral reinserted anterior cruciate liganent. Value of 2 channel augmentation for postoperative rehabilitation. The rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) near its femoral origin is a common injury of the knee and can lead to lesions of the meniscus due to instability and to early gonarthrosis. One procedure applied in current orthopaedic practice to prevent such impairment of knee joint function is ACL repair reinforced with a synthetic intraarticular ligament. In this study we used twelve knees of cadavers and after sectioning the ACL in each repaired it according the Marshall technique with USP 1 PDS II sutures. We augmented the repair in each case with a 3-mm PET (Trevira hochfest) band inserted by the through-the-condyle (TTC) procedure and attached without preload to the femoral and tibial condyle with a 4-mm staple. We then measured the length of the ACL, the length of the Marshall sutures-ACL complex, the partial lengths, and the deviation angles and adherence-friction force of the 3-mm PET augmentation device, and applied the law of Hooke to calculate the load-sharing between the USP 1 PDS II sutures-ACL complex and the 3-mm PET band and between the ACL and the 3-mm PET band, respectively. We also evaluated the load on the femoral and the tibial fixation of the augmentation device. The results showed that the 3-mm PET band took over 60% of an externally applied load on the knee during the hypothetic period of ACL healing and 27% of the force acting on the knee thereafter. It was calculated that a maximum of 75% of the load taken over by the augmentation device was at the tibial staple and only up to 45% of the force at the femoral one. With due consideration for the requirement for absolute protection ("stress shielding") of the healing ACL but also for the aim of early postoperative accelerated functional rehabilitation without casts, splints or other restrictions of joint movement, we believe that a pretensioned 3-mm PET band is the best choice, since augmentation without preload cannot fulfil these requirements.