Protein kinase C is not necessary for transforming growth factor beta-induced growth-arrest in leukemia cell lines. Growth and differentiation of blood cell precursors are regulated by cytokines and hormones by mechanisms which are incompletely understood. Protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes are widely regarded as being important in signal transduction pathways. We have shown that one isozyme, PKC beta, is uniquely important in mediating phorbol ester-induced growth-arrest in the HL-60 myeloid cell line. 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 induces differentiation and growth-arrest in many cells. It upregulates the expression of PKC beta, potentiating the action of phorbol ester. We tested the hypotheses that cytokines, which arrest the growth of hematopoietic cells, do so by activating PKC beta, and that differentiation and growth-arrest induced by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 is caused by upregulation of PKC beta isozyme gene expression. The influence on growth of combinations of five cytokines (TNF alpha, TGF beta 1, gamma-IFN, IL-1, and G-CSF) and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 on ten human leukemia cell lines (THP-1, HL-60 S, HL-60 PET, U937, K562, Jurkat, MOLT-4, RPM1 8402, KG-1, and KG-1a) was determined. Four cell lines (THP-1, HL-60 S and PET, and U937) exhibited total growth-arrest when incubated with 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 followed by TGF beta 1. The expression by each cell line of mRNA encoding PKC alpha, beta, and delta, both before and after 24 or 48 h of incubation with 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, was determined. Cell lines sensitive to TGF beta 1 each expressed PKC delta endogenously, or expression was up-regulated with 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. U937 cells underexpressed PKC alpha, and HL-60 PET cells underexpressed PKC beta. These data suggested that PKC delta could be responsible for mediating growth-arrest by TGF beta 1. To test this hypothesis directly, we incubated the cells with two bisindolylmaleimide PKC inhibitors during the addition of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 and TGF beta 1. Surprisingly, the PKC inhibitors did not block the growth-arrest induced by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 and TGF beta 1. This experiment strongly suggests that neither growth-arrest induced by TGF beta 1 nor the potentiation of this growth-arrest by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 is mediated by a PKC isozyme which is inhibitable by the bisindolymaleimides.