Are technetium-99m-labeled myocardial perfusion agents adequate for detection of myocardial viability? The noninvasive assessment of myocardial viability in patients with coronary artery disease and depressed left ventricular function has proven clinically useful for identifying those patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy who benefit most from coronary revascularization. Thallium-201 (201Tl) imaging at rest has been the radionuclide imaging technique most often utilized for distinguishing viable myocardium from scar. However, new technetium-99m (99mTc) perfusion agents such as 99mTc-sestamibi and 99mTc-tetrofosmin have emerged as alternatives to 201Tl for imaging of regional myocardial perfusion. Whether these new agents, which have better physical properties for imaging with a gamma camera than 201Tl, are valid for use in assessing myocardial viability is still uncertain. Recent clinical studies have demonstrated that these agents, when imaged using quantitative SPECT, can identify patients with myocardial hibernation who exhibit improved regional systolic function following revascularization. Experimental laboratory studies have shown that the uptake of 99mTc-sestamibi and 99mTc-tetrofosmin in ischemic myocardium is only slightly lower than the uptake of 201Tl. These 99mTc-labeled agents remain bound intracellularly in mitochondria of viable myocytes under conditions of myocardial stunning and short-term hibernation, producing severe myocardial asynergy. With respect to determination of viability, the inferior wall region is at times problematic since attenuation of 99mTc-sestamibi and 99mTc-tetrofosmin is greatest in this area. Demonstration of preserved systolic thickening on ECG-gated SPECT images is indicative of viability in the instance of decreased regional 99mTc counts due to attenuation and not scar. Administration of nitrates prior to tracer injection improves the sensitivity for identifying viable myocardial segments using rest imaging with 99mTc-sestamibi or 99mTc-tetrofosmin. Thus, it appears that the new 99mTc perfusion imaging agents can be successfully employed for the determination of myocardial viability in the setting of severe regional dysfunction and chronic coronary artery disease. The greater the myocardial uptake of these agents in the resting state, the greater the probability of improved systolic function after coronary revascularization.