Comparison of polymerase chain reaction and catalyzed signal amplification in situ hybridization methods for human papillomavirus detection in paraffin-embedded cervical preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions. Two molecular methods for HPV genotyping in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue were evaluated: in house polymerase chain reaction assay (PCR) with consensus and type-specific primers and a novel procedure of in situ hybridization-a catalyzed signal amplification system (CSA-ISH, Genpoint, DAKO, Glostrup, Denmark). The number of HPV positive cases and detected viral types were compared in cervical biopsies and cone specimens according to histopathological diagnosis. Primer efficiency in detecting various types of HPV by PCR method was evaluated.DNA samples (101) were used as a template to amplify with three pairs of consensus (MY09/11, GP5+/6 +, CPI/IIG) and four type-specific HPV primers (HPV-6/11, 18, 16 and 33). The according histological tissue sections were analyzed with CSA-ISH method, using commercial HPV biotinylated probes HPV-6/11, 16/18 and 31/33/51.The degree of concordance for PCR and CSA-ISH was 64.4%. In 63 of 101 samples (62.4%), HPV was detected by PCR, while only 35 (34.7%) were positive using CSA-ISH. CSA-ISH found lower percentages for all HPV types, except HPV-6/11. A lower percentage of positive results in all high-grade lesions was detected by CSA-ISH. Multiple infections were detected by PCR in only one sample and in three samples by CSA-ISH. Detection with My09/11 primers followed by Gp5+/6+ primers, in nested reaction, gave the highest number of positive results: 58 of 63 (92%). None of the samples diagnosed as condylomata planum or CIN I was positive for HPV-6/11 (low risk type), which was detected exclusively in condylomata acuminatum group.A significantly higher number of positive samples was detected with PCR than with CSA-ISH method. CSA-ISH method should be improved, especially in detecting HPV in high-grade lesions. CSA-ISH may be more accurate in detection of multiple infections. GP5+/6+ in nested reaction after MY09/11 detected the highest number of positive results. Samples diagnosed as benign lesions positive on HPV-X must be monitored as possible candidates for progression. CIN I lesions, which were HPV negative, probably will not progress. This finding may be important in planning therapy and avoiding unnecessary treatment.