Hybrid Capture II detection of oncogenic human papillomavirus: a useful tool when evaluating men who have sex with men with atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance on anal cytology. In the cervix and anus, patients with atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance often do not have high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions. In women with atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance, Hybrid-Capture II testing for oncogenic high-risk human papillomavirus is performed and those without high-risk human papillomavirus often are observed. We endeavored to determine whether Hybrid-Capture II testing would be beneficial in men who have sex with men with atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance.We performed a retrospective chart review of men who have sex with men with atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance who had high-resolution anoscopy and Hybrid-Capture II.A total of 290 men were identified (mean age, 42 years), and 212 (73 percent) were HIV-negative. High-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions were found in 50 (17 percent): 23 (10 percent) who were HIV-negative and 27 (35 percent) who were HIV-positive men. High-risk human papillomavirus was found in 138 (48 percent) 91 (43 percent) of HIV-negative and 47 (60 percent) of HIV-positive men. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of atypical cells of undetermined significance cytology combined with Hybrid-Capture II were 84, 60, 30, and 95 percent, respectively. There was no significant difference between all men vs. those who were HIV-positive or HIV-negative except for the positive predictive value.Hybrid-Capture II testing for high-risk human papillomavirus in men who have sex with men with atypical cells of undetermined significance and referring only those with high-risk human papillomavirus reduces the number who require high-resolution anoscopy by more than half. Five percent with high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions would be missed.