Clinicopathological and prognostic significance of Bmi-1 expression in human cervical cancer. To investigate the clinical significance of Bmi-1 expression as a prognostic marker for cervical cancer. Design. Retrospectively collected data from a population-based cohort.Jiangsu Province Hospital. Population. Eighty-eight women diagnosed with cervical carcinoma between 2000 and 2003.RT-PCR assay was performed to determine Bmi-1 mRNA expression in 18 cervical cancer and noncancerous tissue samples and immunohistochemistry to detect Bmi-1 protein expression in 88 cervical cancer samples. The correlation between Bmi-1 expression and clinicopathological factors was analyzed. Additionally, statistical analyses were applied to test for prognostic associations. RNA interference was used to downregulate Bmi-1 expression in a cervical cancer cell line (HeLa). In vitro cytotoxicity was measured by the methylthiazoletetrazolium and colony formation assays. Effects of Bmi-1 inhibition on in vivo growth of cancer cells was detected by the tumorigenicity assay. Cell cycle distribution and cell apoptosis were measured by flow cytometry.The levels of Bmi-1 mRNA and protein expression in tissues were evaluated by RT-PCR and Western Blot assays.The level of Bmi-1 mRNA expression in cervical cancer tissues was significantly higher than that in corresponding noncancerous tissues. High Bmi-1 expression was significantly correlated with poor tumor differentiation, advanced International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage and positive lymph node metastasis. Patients with high Bmi-1 expression showed shorter overall survival than those with low expression. Univariate and multivariate analyses showed that high Bmi-1 expression was an independent prognostic factor.RNA interference-mediated Bmi-1 inhibition could inhibit in vitro and in vivo growth, enhance apoptosis and induce cell cycle arrest of cervical cancer cells. Bmi-1 might be an independent prognostic marker for cervical cancer patients.