HPV vaccine awareness and willingness of first-year students entering university in Western Turkey. The objectives of this study were to assess the level of knowledge on HPV and HPV vaccination, and to determine vaccination attitude among Ege university students in Izmir, Turkey. A cross-sectional survey was conducted in first-year English preparatory class. Systematic cluster sampling was applied and 717 (72.6%) of students registered to the 54 classes in 17 different faculties/schools were contacted. Data were collected between April 30 and May 18, 2010, through a self-reported questionnaire including 40 questions. A knowledge score was calculated by summing up the number of correct answers given to the 12 knowledge questions. Analyses were done using t-test, chi-square test, univariate and multivariate logistic regression. The mean age of participants was 19.7±1.5 and 445 (62.1%) were female. Overall, 132 (18.9%) had experienced sexual intercourse, but only 7 of them were female. Among participants, 24.1% had heard of HPV and 25.1% about HPV vaccine. The knowledge item with the highest correct answer rate (32.3%) was that HPV caused cervical cancer. The mean total knowledge score was remarkably poor (1.8±2.6 over 12 items), with 59.6% of respondents having zero as their score. There was no difference in mean knowledge scores between males and females. Higher income, history of sexual intercourse and higher knowledge score were significant factors increasing HPV and vaccine awareness for the whole group, adjusted for gender. Genital cancer history in the family significantly increased awareness, but only among girls. Only three students (0.4%) had already been vaccinated, all being female. Among females, 11.6% intended to be vaccinated vs. 10.1% for males, without any significant difference. Visiting a gynaecologist/urologist in the last three years, a history of genital cancer in the family, vaccine awareness, a higher total knowledge score, and being from the East of Turkey were significant predictors of a positive vaccination attitude. HPVvaccination still remains as a 'hot medical topic' in Turkey, since it hasn't yet become a popular health issue. Based on their age of first intercourse, first year at the university seems to be appropriate timing to inform Turkish girls, whereas it is a bit late for boys. Thus, integration of HPV education into secondary/high school curricula should be considered.