The value of high-resolution anoscopy in the diagnosis of anal cancer precursor lesions in HIV-positive patients. Anal cancer, although a still rare disease, is being observed in ascending rates among some population segments known to be at risk for the development of the disease. Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection, immunodepression and anal intercourse are some factors associated with the development of the malignancy. Its similarities to cervical cancer have led to many studies aiming to establish guidelines for detecting and treating precursor lesions of anal cancer, with the goal of prevention. High-resolution anoscopy is routinely used for the diagnosis of anal cancer precursor lesions in many centers but the medical literature is still deficient concerning the role of this diagnostic modality.To evaluate diagnostic validation and precision measures of high-resolution anoscopy in comparison to histopathological results of anal biopsies performed in HIV-positive patients treated at the Tropical Medicine Foundation of Amazonas, AM, Brazil. To observe any possible association between some risk factors for the development of anal cancer and the presence of anal squamous intraepithelial lesions.A hundred and twenty-eight HIV-positive patients were submitted to anal canal cytological sampling for the detection of HPV infection by a PCR based method. High-resolution anoscopy was then performed after topical application of acetic acid 3% in the anal canal for 2 minutes. Eventual acetowhite lesions that were detected were recorded in respect to location, and classified by their tinctorial pattern, distribution aspect, relief, surface and vascular pattern. Biopsies of acetowhite lesions were performed under local anesthesia and the specimens sent to histopathological analysis. The patients were interviewed for the presence of anal cancer risk factors.The prevalences of anal HPV infection and of anal squamous intraepithelial lesions in the studied population were, respectively, 79% and 39.1%. High-resolution anoscopy showed sensibility of 90%, specificity of 19.23%, positive predictive value of 41.67%, negative predictive value of 75%, and a kappa coefficient of 0.076. From the analyzed lesions, high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions was more frequently observed in association to dense (68%), flat (61%), smooth (61%), non-papillary (83%) and normal vascular pattern (70%) acetowhite lesions, while low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions tended to be associated to dense (66%), flat-raised or raised (68%), granular (59%), non-papillary (62%) and normal vascular pattern (53%) acetowhite lesions. No statistical significance was observed as to the association of epidemiological characteristics and of most of the investigated anal cancer risk factors and presence of acetowhite lesions or anal squamous intraepithelial lesions. However, anal receptive sex and anal HPV infection were significantly associated to anal squamous intraepithelial lesions (P = 0.0493 and P = 0.006, respectively).High-resolution anoscopy demonstrated to be a sensitive, but not specific test for the detection of anal squamous intraepithelial lesions. Risk factors anal receptive sex and anal HPV infection were significantly associated to the presence of anal squamous intraepithelial lesions. Based on high-resolution anoscopy image data, acetowhite lesions relief and surface pattern were prone to distinguish between low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions and high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions.