Preparation of HPV18 E7 peptide plus CpG vaccine and its immunologic effects in vitro. To screen and prepare the vaccine of human papillomavirus (HPV) 18 E7 peptide target at human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A2 plus CpG through SYFPEITHI.(1) The SYFPEITHI database was employed for predicting and screening of HPV18 E7 HLA-A2 restricted T cell epitopes.(2) The peripheral blood and tumor tissue sample of HLA-A2 positive and HPV18 positive/negative patients were collected and randomly divided into 7 groups, i.e. E7PA + CpG, E7PB + CpG, E7PC + CpG, E7PD + CpG, CpG, IR-T + CpG and control groups respectively. T cell proliferation was detected by thiazolyl blue tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay at different timepoints. Lactate dehydrogenase delivery method (LDH) was used to test the cytolytic t lymphocyte (CTL) activity of peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) in different ratios of effect and target (E:T). And the level of activity T cells was evaluated by interferon gamma (IFN-γ)-related enzyme-linked immuno-spot assay (ELISPOT).(1) Four peptides named E7PA, E7PB, E7PC and E7PD were obtained separately with high levels of affinity and specificity. (2) During continuous observations after vaccination, the E7PA + CpG group had the most pronounced proliferation rate. When E:T = 100:1, the E7PA + CpG group had more powerful CTL effect than the control group with statistic significance (P < 0.00). E:T was concentration-dependent. Except for IR-T + CpG, all other groups had great difference than control group with statistic significance (P < 0.05) but no significant difference between the groups. The levels of IFN-γ spot-forming T cells were higher in the E7PA + CpG group than the control group with statistic significance (P < 0.01). In terms of specificity, E7PA + CpG in the HPV18 positive group could induce the proliferation of IFN-γ-secreting T cells. And there was statistical difference with the control group (P < 0.05).Screening the HPV18 E7 peptide target at HLA-A2 plus CpG as the candidate targets by SYFPEITHI may active specific immunological cellular responses to HPV18 positive disease.