Attitude and knowledge of Iranian female nurses about human papilomavirus infection and cervical cancer: a cross sectional survey. Human Papilomavirus (HPV) is one of the most widespread sexually transmitted diseases is highly related to cervical cancer in women. Cervical cancer's crude incidence rate in Iran is 6-8 per 100,000. The HPV vaccine provides a chance to considerably decrease the transmission of most types of HPV. The aim of this study was to evaluate awareness and knowledge of HPV infection and vaccines and to assess the attitude and approach toward these vaccines among female nurses at Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran.This cross-sectional, descriptive study was performed among 380 female nurses. Data were collected using a questionnaire was consisted in demographic variables and questions on knowledge of participants about HPV infection, HPV vaccine and cervical cancer and also questions on attitude of ourses towards HPV vaccination. The validity and internal consistency of questionnaire was confirmed during experts consents and pilot testing (alpha = 0.79). Data analysis was performed using SPSS15 using chi2-test or Fisher's exact test.Three hundred and eighty questionnaires were distributed and 357 female nurses completed and returned their questionnaires: Only one hundred and thirty-one of the nurses (36.7%) knew about HPV infection and how it can cause abnormal pap Smear results. about 147 (41.2%) of the nurses stated they would want to be vaccinated. About 146 (40.9%) of respondents supported vaccination of preadolescent girls.The results of this study confirm the lack of knowledge about HPV vaccine and its relation to cervical cancer and also the ways of this cancer prevention. Our study shows an urgent need to design similar studies in other regions of Iran and draw a broad estimation on knowledge of different target groups to make a national program to increase the knowledge of women on this matter and help to decrease the rate of cervical cancer in Iranian population.