Maternal-fetal transmission of human papillomavirus. Human papilloma virus (HPV) infection is one of the most frequently observed sexually-transmitted diseases (10-60% of the general population). In pregnant women, as well as accelerating the evolution of dysplasia to cervical cancer, the infection may be transmitted to the fetus during gestation or at the time of birth. Children who have been infected at birth may develop laryngeal papillomatosis during the first 5 years of life that may, in some cases, spread to the point of causing aphonia or severe respiratory obstruction. There is also the risk, although it is very low, of a carcinomatous degeneration of the larynx in these subjects during adulthood. The hypothesis of the present study was to verify the prevalence of HPV infection in a population of pregnant women and the prevalence of maternal-fetal transmission.A prospective longitudinal design lasting 11 months was used for the study. It included the collection of an endocervical biopsy from population of pregnant women using a swab that was diluted in 3 cc of physiological solution, and the collection of oropharyngeal secretions from their respective neonates using a cottonwool bud.A total of 170 pregnant women attending the Obstetric Centre of the Obstetric and Gynecological Clinic of Trieste University were recruited in the study. An endocervical biopsy was taken during the 1st and/or 2nd trimester of gestation and/or at the start of labour. Of these subjects, 23 completed all the planned biopsies and a sample of oropharyngeal secretion was collected from their neonates.From the material obtained the presence of HPV-DNA was analysed using a PCR (protein chain reaction) technique consisting of the following steps: 1) culture of human cells expressing sequences of HPV 16 and 18 used as positive controls 2) preservation of tissue material washed in watery 4% formalin solutionPositive HPV-DNA results in at least one of the three samples collected during the various periods of gestation was 31.2%, whilst in the population in which all the planned samples were performed the frequency of positive cases was 30.4%. Positive results for HPV-DNA in oropharyngeal secretions from neonates was 21.7%. The concordance of positivity for HPV-DNA in mothers at the time of labour and in their respective neonates was 57.14%.The trend of infection did not reveal substantial changes during the various gestational periods in which tests were performed. The possibility of HPV-DNA transmission from mother to fetus is high, above all when the maternal PCR test is positive at the time of birth, or in the presence of a high viral load. This justifies the need to monitor this infection in pregnancy in those affected by florid genital condylomatosis or with koilocytosis on cervical cytology. It is also appropriate to check all HPV-DNA positive neonates one year after birth.