Comparison of two surgical techniques for renal transplantation in cats. To compare two surgical techniques for renal transplantation in cats with respect to graft warm ischemia time, total surgical time, operative and postoperative complications, and return to normal renal function based on measurement of plasma creatinine concentrations.Research study using normal cats.Fourteen adult, feline leukemia virus and feline immunodeficiency virus (FELV/FIV) negative, neutered male and spayed female cats.Fourteen cats underwent heterotopic renal isograft transplantation with nephrectomy of the contralateral kidney. Renal arterial end-to-end anastomosis to the external iliac artery was performed in eight cats and renal arterial end-to-side anastomosis to the aorta was performed in six cats. Cats were monitored for 14 days after surgery. Renal function was evaluated by daily measurement of plasma creatinine concentrations. The cats' health was assessed by the daily recording of body weight, rectal temperature, postoperative complications, urine production, appetite, packed red blood cell volume, and total serum protein. Ultrasonographic assessment of the isograft was performed every third day. Animals were euthanatized or adopted 14 days after surgery and histopathologic analysis of biopsies or whole isograft tissues was performed.Nine of fourteen cats survived the 14-day study period. Although not statistically significant, mean total surgical time and graft warm ischemia time was shorter for the arterial end-to-side anastomosis. Mean daily plasma creatinine concentrations were not significantly different between the two groups. Five of eight cats (62%) undergoing the arterial end-to-end technique developed neuropraxia and lameness of the ipsilateral pelvic limb. Five cats died or were euthanatized because of other complications.The arterial end-to-side technique appears to be the better method for renal transplantation in cats. Shorter graft warm ischemia and total surgical times, absence of pelvic limb complications, and an adequate return to normal renal function were associated with this technique.