Delayed hepatic artery thrombosis in adult orthotopic liver transplantation-a 12-year experience. Although the clinical features of early hepatic artery thrombosis (HAT) are well defined, the features of delayed (more than 4 weeks after transplantation) hepatic artery thrombosis are less clearly defined. The aim of our study was to identify risk factors, clinical presentation, and outcome of management of delayed hepatic artery thrombosis (HAT) after liver transplant (LTx).An analysis of prospectively collected data of all patients transplanted from 1986 to 1998 was performed. The importance of recipient (age, sex, primary indication for LTx, cytomegalovirus status, and intraabdominal sepsis) and donor factors (donor age, cold ischemia time, and donor cytomegalovirus status), modes of presentation, and outcome of treatment (biliary reconstruction/stenting, regraft, vascular reconstruction, observation) were analyzed.Delayed HAT was seen in 31/1097 adult LTx recipients (incidence 2.8%). No recipient or donor factors were identified as risk factors. A total of 16 patients were symptomatic at presentation (HAT diagnosed on abdominal ultrasound). Six patients had recurrent episodes of cholangitis, four had cholangitis with a stricture, four had cholangitis and intrahepatic abscesses, and two had bile leaks. Biliary reconstruction was done in six patients (all of whom subsequently required a regraft), vascular reconstruction was performed in two patients (one regrafted and one died shortly after), four patients with cholangitis and stricture on presentation had a biliary stent (all four were later regrafted). A total of 16 patients were regrafted, 9 are alive, 5 died within 6 months (septic at time of LTx), 1 died after 1 year, and 1 died after 2 years. Fifteen patients were asymptomatic and detected on routine screening. 5 have remained asymptomatic and are still alive, 1 developed a biliary stricture that was stented and is alive 105 months later, 4 had recurrence of the original disease, 3 developed progressive graft failure and were listed for transplant but died before regraft due to overwhelming sepsis and hepatic encephalopathy. Two patients died due to nonbiliary sepsis.Delayed HAT is a rare complication of LTx that may present with biliary sepsis, or remain asymptomatic. Biliary or vascular reconstructions do not increase graft survival. Of the patients who were clinically silent on presentation, 20% developed progressive graft failure requiring a second transplant. A total of 33% survived in the long-term without a second transplant. Ongoing severe sepsis at the time of regraft results in poor survival.