Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting. Excellent results in a group of selected high-risk patients. Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (OPCABG) has assumed an increasing role in many surgical practices. The ideal candidate has not been defined, but high-risk patients seem to benefit most when cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), aortic cross clamping and cardioplegic arrest are avoided.Fourteen high-risk patients (age 52 to 81 years, 1 female, EF 44%+/-8, Parsonnet score 23+/-4) were studied. They presented with acute coronary syndroms on platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists, acute myocardial infarction, worsening renal failure, decompensating ischemic cardiomyopathy, religious beliefs and denial of blood transfusion, and severe peripheral/cerebrovascular disease (total bilateral internal carotid artery occlusion and/or >90% stenosis). These patients underwent OPCABG via sternotomy with the intention of complete coronary revascularization.An average of 2.3 grafts/patient were performed and the posterior descending artery (PDA) and marginal branches of the circumflex artery (LCX) were grafted in 79% of the patients. There were 3 events of intraoperative cardiac arrest precipitated by occlusion of right coronary artery (RCA) or positioning a cardiomegaly heart leading to immediate intravascular shunting (2) and/or conversion to CPB (1). One patient was converted to CPB and graft revision (intraoperative ultrasound and probing). The mortality rate was 0% and one stroke was observed on post-operative day 1. Coronary angiography (n=6) showed no significant stenosis.OPCABG complete revascularization is feasible in high-risk patients with low morbidity and mortality and excellent earlyOPCABG may be indicated in patients on platelet receptor antagonists preventing bleeding complications. Cardiomegaly can cause difficult off-pump LCX and PDA exposure and stabilization. RCA grafting off-pump is less tolerated and PDA grafting is preferred. High-risk patients for CPB are the ones who may benefit the most from OPCABG.