Epiaortic ultrasound and intraoperative transesophageal ecocardiography for the thoracic aorta atherosclerosis assessment in patient undergoing CABG. Surgical technique modification to avoid cerebral stroke. Cerebral complication during coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG), still occurs in spite of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) technology advances. Our study sought to assess the role of epiaortic ultrasound (EAS) and intraoperative transesophagial ecocardiography (TEE) in detection of patients with atherosclerosis of the thoracic aorta and high risk for cerebral embolisation. Consequently our surgical strategies modification for a better cerebral protection.Our lot study comprise 352 patients undergoing EAS and TEE, during CABG. EAS was performed before opening of the pericardium using a 7.5 MHz ultrasonic probe packed in a sterile bag. In the presence of moderate aortic atherosclerosis (maximum aortic wall thickness of 3 mm) primarily single aortic cross-clamping and choose of aortic cannulation place was carried out. In cases of severe aortic atheroma (maximum aortic wall thickness > 5 mm or mobile plaque), aortic no touch technique, off-pump were used. From 34 patients with severe ascending aortic atherosclerosis 22 of these patients (18 male, 4 female, age 72(57-79), Parsonet Score 11(0-8), Euroscore 8(2-13), McSPI Stroke Risk Index 6 (1-30%) were managed on "no touch technique", Off-pump. All patients received at least one left internal mammary artery (LIMA) in situ graft and additional extraanatomical bypass conduits: venous Y-graft from IMA (n = 14), arterial Y-graft from LIMA (n = 3), vein graft from axillary artery (n = 3), vein graft from the RIMA stump (n = 3). Median operative time was 240 (115-435) min.We found a mild aortic atherosclerosis in 151 patients (43%), moderate in 167 (47%) and severe in 34 patients (8.8%).. Operative mortality was 2/22 in a group with high risk index, from another cause than cerebral stroke. No cerebral stroke occurred. The rate of perioperative myocardial infarction (CKMB > 50U/l) was 5/22. Median stay in ICU, 54 hours (15-1245 hours). After a median follow up period of 8 months one death occurred from cerebral stroke and no myocardial infarction.Accurate detection of atheroma on ascending aorta and aortic arch by a combination between EAS and TEE and in special surgical technique modification using off-pump revascularization and extraanatomical bypass for the management of a heavily calcified aorta can result in a very low stroke rate despite a considerable stroke risk. The hospital mortality and morbidity can be lower than predicted by Euroscore and Parsonet Score.