Endovascular treatment of isolated atherosclerotic stenosis of the infrarenal abdominal aorta: long-term outcome. The purpose of this multicenter study was to assess the long-term outcome of endovascular treatment of isolated atherosclerotic stenosis of the infrarenal abdominal aorta on the basis of clinical and ultrasound examination. Clinical, ultrasound, and angiographic findings from 36 women and 50 men (mean age, 53.2 years) treated for atherosclerotic stenosis of the infrarenal abdominal aorta were reviewed. Patients had claudication in 74 cases and rest pain in 4. Seven patients presented trophic manifestations and one had blue toe syndrome. Mean preoperative systolic index was 0.71. Mean diameter reduction was 77%. Circumferential calcification was partial in 36 cases (41%) and complete in 30 cases (35%). Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty was performed using the single-balloon technique in 60 cases and double-balloon technique in 26 cases. A stent was placed in 76 cases (88%) by necessity in 34% of cases (22 residual stenoses, 4 dissections). Completion angiographic findings were considered good in 82 cases (95%). The remaining four patients had residual stenosis with a diameter reduction >30%. One patient died during the immediate postoperative period from septicemia unrelated to treatment (early mortality, 1.2%). Aortic angioplasty was complicated by stent detachment from the angioplasty balloon in two patients, retroperitoneal hematoma in one, peripheral embolism in two, puncture-site hematoma in three, myocardial infarction in one, and thrombophlebitis of deep femoral artery in one patient (early morbidity, 9.3%). All patients underwent follow-up with clinical and hemodynamic evaluation (mean follow-up, 31 months). Actuarial survival at 3 years was 91%. Primary actuarial patency was 94% at 1 year, 89% at 3 years, and 77% at 5 years. Aortic restenosis occurred in seven patients and was treated by angioplasty in two, aortobifemoral bypass in four, and surveillance in one. Mean systolic index was 0.89. Statistical analysis of patency demonstrated no factor predictive of long-term complication. From the long-term follow-up findings in this study, we conclude that aortic angioplasty is a reliable minimally invasive technique for treatment of isolated atherosclerotic stenosis of the infrarenal abdominal aorta.