Duplex arteriography prior to femoral-popliteal reconstruction in claudicants: a proposal for a new shortened protocol. The standard preoperative duplex arteriography (DA) from the aorta to the pedal vessels is time consuming and may be unnecessary in patients presenting with calf claudication alone. The feasibility of a shortened protocol was evaluated. Of 286 femoral-popliteal reconstruction based on DA during the last 4A years, 79 (28%) were primary operations for calf claudication. Eliminating the aortoiliac portion of the test except for the distal external iliac artery and limiting the scanning of the infrapopliteal vessels to one or two arteries in the leg would significantly shorten the exam. To confirm the adequacy of the inflow tract, we relied on the common femoral artery Doppler waveform analysis and the intraoperative graft pressure upon completion of the bypass. Of the 79 primary femoral-popliteal bypasses, 53 (67%) had triphasic common femoral artery waveform and the remaining 26 had monophasic or biphasic waveforms. Three (6%) of the 53 femoral-popliteal bypasses in the former group had significant pressure gradients measured intraoperatively and were treated with iliac angioplasties and stents for unsuspected stenoses in 2 cases and a covered stent for a common iliac aneurysm in 1 case. Three, two, and one infrapopliteal vessel runoff was observed in 24 (45%), 16 (30%), and 9 (17%) extremities, respectively. Four patients (8%) had significant stenoses (>50%) or occlusion of all three infrapopliteal arteries. Eighty-one percent of the patients would have completed the short protocol had we scanned the peroneal artery initially. An additional 8% would have required scanning of a second vessel (anterior tibial) and only 11%, scanning of all three infrapopliteal vessels. The time interval for completion of short-protocol DA was significantly less than the time for the standard DA (16.2 A+/- 5.2A min vs. 35.1 A+/- 10.6 min) ( p < 0.01). We believe that the proposed short DA protocol combined with intraoperative graft pressure measurements can be used in 94% of the patients who have a patent popliteal artery (>/= 7 cm). It is a totally noninvasive approach that is particularly suitable for vascular technologists and surgeons who wish to start utilizing DA instead of contrast arteriography prior to infrainguinal reconstructions. However, the short protocol does not avert the need for completion arteriography of the inflow arteries and readiness to perform endovascular procedures to correct lesions not suspected by common femoral artery waveform analysis.