Mitral valve repair in children for acquired valvular disease. Valve surgery in children is aimed at restoring correct hemodynamics with few reoperations and limited resort to prostheses, which would imply early deterioration or definitive hypocoagulation.Report a series of paediatric pts with acquired mitral valve disease, mostly due to rheumatic disease, in whom it was possible, for the great majority, to repair the damaged valve.Fifty children with predominant mitral valve disease, 47 rheumatic (94%) and 3 after endocarditis were consequently operated by the same surgical team over the last five years. Ages were 12.5+/-3.1 yrs and weights 33.2+/-8.4 Kg, 30 pts presented with predominant mitral regurgitation and 20 pts had significant stenosis. In 8 pts there also moderate to severe aortic regurgitation and in 2 pts severe tricuspid regurgitation was present. Patients were not operated during the acute phase of the disease. Five pts were reoperations and from those, all but one received mechanical prosthesis.In all operations the intention was to repair the mitral valve. In 46 pts complex mitral valvuloplasties were performed extended comissurotomies, shortening of chordae, chordal replacement with PTFE, and reconstruction of valve leaflefts by direct patching or pericardial extension of the retracted posterior leaflet (78.2% cases), plus reshaping of the annulus by using a fixed prosthetic CE ring (sizes 26 to 32) in every case. Ring sizes correlated poorly with body weights, but correlation was close and positive for the use of pericardial advancement of the posterior leaflet (p<0.01). There was no operative mortality, but one pt died early from sepsis and there was no late mortality. Maximum follow up extends now to 50 months (median 28 months) and functional evaluation, at latest follow up, as assessed by Doppler Echocardiography, showed residual mitral regurgitation, mild-moderate in 4 pts and LA-LV gradients mild in 5 and moderate in 2 pts. NYHA functional class, at present follow-up is class I for 43 pts (88%) and class II in the remaining 6 pts. Along the follow-up period 2 pts had to be reoperated for early repair failures and other three for late failures, presently freedom for reoperation is 91.8% at 5 years.Mitral valve repair in children with rheumatic lesions can be achieved for the great majority of cases by using different techniques. Pericardial extension of the retracted posterior leaflet allowed the use of a bigger size prosthetic ring. Intermediate functional results are good with fair functional classes and few reoperations but follow-up is short and does not allow us to draw conclusions about the long-term results of the repair in these rheumatic patients.