Atherosclerosis and the kidney. Diffuse atherosclerosis entails a 15-30% risk of plaques on renal arteries (ARAS), with a correlation with coronary atherosclerosis. Ischemia induces generation of angiotensin II (Ang II) that maintains sufficient hydrostatic pressure within the tuft to preserve the GFR. Ang II inhibition suppresses this protective mechanism. In fact, any antihypertensive drug may lead to reaching a "critical perfusion pressure". ARAS should be suspected in case of renal asymmetry. It should also be envisaged in case of "flash pulmonary edemas". Ultrasonography and renal tomography show aortic calcifications and often the outline of an abdominal aortic aneurysm. Tomodensitometry may detect large aorto-renal plaques. Spiral scanner tomography represents a progress, in terms of renal artery imaging and of renal cortical atrophy. Magnetic resonance imaging is less accurate but avoids iodine toxicity. The best noninvasive method is pulsed echo-doppler. It is particularly useful for evaluating stenoses progression. Some stenoses progress to renal atrophy and renal artery thrombosis, whereas others follow a stable course. Pulsed Doppler helps predict whether revascularization will improve renal function, according to the resistance index. Renal arteriography entails a high risk of cholesterol crystal embolism. However, it is the obligatory first step for angioplasty and stent positioning, indicated when the kidney is not atrophic. The indication for revascularization essentially depends on evaluation of the benefits vs risks of angioplasty or surgery. Some publications underscore the frequent stability of renal function and the fact that, revascularized or not, most patients will shortly die of myocardial infarction. Renal cholesterol crystal embolism (CCE) is a severe condition, which occurs when large arteries undergo surgery, aortography or interventional radiology. Anticoagulants are a frequent cause of CCE. CCE may also occur spontaneously, resulting in slowly progressive renal insufficiency. Migration of crystals in small caliber intrarenal arteries induces obstruction, followed by an inflammatory reaction. The clinical picture resembles angiitis, with laboratory evidence of inflammation along with high eosinophil counts and hypocomplementemia. Diagnosis rests on: 1) a iatrogenic event in a patient with an atherosclerotic background 2) examination of the skin disclosing purple toes, small necrotic lesions and livedo of the lower limbs. Crystals may also be found by funduscopy. Skin or muscle biopsy are contributive in showing crystals and help avoid renal biopsy