Pseudoaneurysm after renal transplantation. Renal arterial pseudoaneurysm is a rare complication of renal transplantation that often causes a graft loss. A recent successful outcome of the operative treatment and a reappearance of a pseudoaneurysm and a possibility of watchful followup of pseudoaneurysm encouraged us to present our modest experience with pseudoaneurysm after renal transplant.In our series of 843 renal transplants performed during 37 years vascular complications were observed in 57 (6.76%) patients. Pseudoaneurysm occurred in three patients (0.35%). The first pseudoaneurysm was found in 1973. A 23-year-old male patient received a double renal artery kidney from HLA identical brother. The upper renal artery was anastomosed by an end-to-end way with the internal iliac artery, and and the lower renal artery by end-to-side way to the external iliac artery. Five weeks after transplant an arteriography was performed because of the bruits heard over the transplant. A 15 x 10-mm pseudoaneurysm was revealed on the end-to-end anastomosis between internal iliac and upper renal artery. Six weeks after transplant a renal arterial resection and an end-to-side anastomosis between renal artery and common iliac artery was performed. The 38-year-old male patient received his second transplant from a 17-year-old female donor dead after craniocerebral trauma in December 2004. Two renal arteries were anastomosed separately with external iliac artery using aortic patches. Two and half moths after transplant he was admitted for an increase of creatinine level and hypertension. Color Doppler, dynamic scintigraphy and an angiography revealed a 20 x 1,3 mm aneurysmatic formation at the anastomosis of upper renal artery. The flow in the belonging part of the transplant was reduced. At surgical intervention a saphenous vein graft between internal iliac artery and renal artery was performed. Ischemia time was 15 min. The pseudoaneurysm was removed. A hole on external iliac artery was closed with a saphenal patch. The 38-year-old female patient received her second transplant in January 2005 from cadaver. There were 3 arteries. The upper polar arterywas first anastomosed to principal renal artery Then both arteries were anastomosed to external iliac artery termino-laterally.In the first patient a lesion of the ureteral anastomosis caused an infection, thrombosis of lower artery and a graft loss 4 months and half after transplant. The second patient was admitted urgently 3.5 months after the repair of his pseudoaneurysm because of the pain in the pelvic region. He was working that day during several hours in sitting position on his terrace. Immediate examination with color Doppler revealed a large 6 x 7-cm pseudoaneurysm medially of the transplant. An arteriography demonstrated a pseudoaneurysm with a blood leakage most likely at the site of the closure of external iliac artery with a saphenal vein patch. The arteriography showed a slower and diminished blood flow in the lower part of the transplant. At intervention the pseudoaneurysm was removed. The external iliac artery was considerably damaged and replaced with Goretex prostesis 6 mm. Unfortunately the transplant lower artery could not be saved. A microbiological examination of pseudoaneurysm in both patients was negative. In the third case we chose a watchful follow-up. Last Doppler controls show reduction of psudoaneurysm.The development of a pseudoaneurysm of a transplant artery is very rare complication. Since actually ultrasonography is routinely used, a pseudoaneurysm can be easily detected. Color Doppler allows a differential diagnosis from hematoma, urinoma and lymphocele. Unfortunately a pseudoaneurysm after renal transplant often causes a loss of the transplant. The first patient had successful resection of a pseudoaneurysm, but the transplant was lost because of infection. The other patient had a subsequent pseudoaneurysm after the repair of the first. Unfortunately its repair caused an exclusion of the lower part of the kidney, but the residual renal function is satisfactory. In the third patient we chose a follow-up aware that each intervention could cause a graft loss.