Remodeling of the aortic neck with a balloon-expandable stent graft in patients with complicated neck morphology. Graft migration and other device-related problems are more frequent in abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) patients with a complicated neck. We wanted to evaluate the performance of a balloon-expandable stent graft in these cases. Complicated aortic neck morphology was defined as a combination of short (<15 mm) and angulated (>45 degrees) necks with or without circumferential thrombus. Severe aortic angulation was defined as less than 120 degrees. During a 24-month period, 18 consecutive patients with complicated neck anatomy were treated with the Vascular Innovations (VI)-Datascope balloon-expandable endograft. In two patients, a balloon-expandable cuff was implanted to remodel the neck prior to insertion of a bifurcated endograft (Excluder, W.L. Gore & Associates, Flagstaff, AZ). Demographic, procedural, and outcome data were collected prospectively and retrospectively analyzed. All patients had preoperative computed tomographic (CT) angiography to determine aortic neck angulation and were followed with duplex ultrasonography and CT every 3 and 6 months postoperatively to assess aortic neck and sac dilatation, as well as device migration. The VI-Datascope graft consists of an aortounifemoral polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) graft sutured to a proximal balloon-expandable stent. The length of the graft is 40 cm thus, the distal end of the graft always protrudes through the ipsilateral arteriotomy and can be cut to an appropriate length for each patient. The covered portion of the graft was deployed just below the level of the lowest renal artery. The proximal bare metal stent was deployed in the suprarenal area. An endoluminal hand-sewn anastomosis was performed between the aortounifemoral limb and the distal external iliac or the common femoral arteries. An occluder device was placed in the contralateral common iliac artery to prevent retrograde perfusion of the aneurysm. A femorofemoral 8 mm Dacron graft bypass was then performed to establish flow to the contralateral extremity and pelvis. Using this approach, remodeling and straightening of angulated aortic neck morphology were achieved in all cases, including in 44% of patients with severe aortic neck angulation. The average follow-up period was 11.5 months (4-21 months). There was one early occlusion (<30 days after implantation) of the PTFE limb requiring thrombectomy and one late occlusion (6 months after implantation) requiring thrombectomy and implantation of a Viabahn stent graft (W.L. Gore & Associates). Scheduled CT scans did not show any graft migration or proximal neck dilatation. Neither neck dilatation nor endograft migration was observed with the balloon-expandable stent graft. In patients with complicated aortic neck morphology, balloon-expandable stent grafts such as the VI-Datascope graft provide more secure fixation and better long-term outcomes compared with the more commonly used self-expanding endografts.