Endovascular repair of aortic aneurysm--preliminary results. Endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) has been introduced into clinical practice at the beginning of the 90's of the last century. Because of economic, political and social problems during the last 25 years, the introduction of this procedure in Serbia was not possible.The aim of this study was to present preliminary experiences and results of the Clinic for Vascular Surgery of the Serbian Clinical Centre in Belgrade in endovascular treatment of thoracic and abdominal aortic aneurysms.The procedure was performed in 33 patients (3 female and 30 male), aged from 42 to 83 years. Ten patients had a descending thoracic aorta aneurysm (three atherosclerotic, four traumatic--three chronic and one acute as a part of polytrauma, one dissected, two penetrated atherosclerotic ulcers), while 23 patients had the abdominal aortic aneurysm, one ruptured and two isolated iliac artery aneurysms. The indications for EVAR were isthmic aneurismal localisation, aged over 80 years and associated comorbidity (cardiac, pulmonary and cerebrovasular diseases, previous thoracotomy or multiple laparotomies associated with abdominal infection, idiopathic thrombocitopaenia). All of these patients had three or more risk factors. The diagnosis was established using duplex ultrasonography, angiography and MSCT. In the case of thoracic aneurysm, a Medtronic-Valiant endovascular stent graft was implanted, while for the abdominal aortic aneurysm Medtronic-Talent endovascular stent grafts with delivery systems were used. In three patients, following EVAR a surgical repair of the femoral artery aneurysm was performed, and in another three patients femoro-femoral cross over bypass followed implantation of aortouniiliac stent graft.During procedure and follow-up period (mean 1.6 years), there were: one death, one conversion, one endoleak type 1, six patients with endoleak type 2 that disappeared during the follow-up period, one early graft thrombosis. No other complications, including aneurysm expansion, collapse, deformity and migration of the endovascular stent grafts, were registered.According to all medical and economic aspects, we recommend EVAR to treat acute traumatic thoracic aortic aneurysm, as well as in elderly and high-risk patients with abdominal or thoracic aneurysms, when open surgery is related to a significantly higher mortality and morbidity.