Outcomes and timing of aortic surgery in renal transplant patients. Solid organ transplantation in elderly patients has become more common in recent years. An increasing number of patients present with renal failure requiring transplantation and comorbid occlusive or aneurysmal aortic pathology. The optimal strategy for the timing and management of the aortic disease and renal transplantation in these patients is unknown. Before the availability of endovascular therapies, our policy was to provide open repair of aortic disease before cadaveric transplantation, or by simultaneous aortic reconstruction with renal allotransplantation if a living donor was available. Since the wide acceptance of endovascular modalities, our strategy has changed to take advantage of endovascular treatment pre-transplant. This study examines the outcome of both approaches.We performed a retrospective review of 12 patients between 1996 and 2009 who underwent both renal transplantation and a major abdominal aortic procedure either simultaneously (n = 6), metachronous, with the procedures occurring within the same month (n = 2), or distant, with the aortic procedures occurring between 5 and 24 months before or after transplantation (n = 4). All patients with occlusive disease underwent an aortobifemoral bypass, one before transplant, one subsequent to transplantation, and four simultaneous with a renal allograft. To assess renal transplant status, patients' serum creatinine levels were followed up every 3 months. Of the 12 patients, eight underwent open aortic procedures, whereas four underwent endovascular aortic aneurysm repair. Patients who underwent endovascular aortic aneurysm repair were followed up with ultrasound examinations at 6-month intervals, and with contrast computed tomography scans every other year.Aortic reconstruction was performed successfully in all the 12 patients irrespective of timing strategy. All the patients who underwent endovascular repair had functional renal allografts for the duration of follow-up. Two patients had simultaneous aortobifemoral bypass and pancreas-kidney transplantation without complication. Among the patients with open aortic repairs, there was one 5-year mortality and one patient had failure of two renal allografts. None of the patients had limb loss, and aortic grafts (one limb required a secondary procedure) remained patent. The 5-year patient survival of 90% and kidney survival of 75% appeared similar to results in the general transplant population without aortic disease. Two significant complications related to the open procedures were observed: two renal transplants developed postoperative hematomas requiring evacuation and one aortobifemoral bypass (ABF) developed a femoral wound infection requiring evacuation and sartorius flap closure. The 30-day mortality rate in all patients was zero. The length of stay for patients receiving simultaneous procedures ranged from 5 to 14 days (median, 10.5) and was significantly lower than the 10-52-day (median, 18) combined length of stay in the metachronous and/or distant groups (p = 0.016).The coexistence of aortic disease and renal transplantation is an increasingly common clinical scenario. Exclusion from transplantation of patients with major aortoiliac disease is commonplace in many transplant centers as early registry data suggested a poor outcome. Appropriate planning with a vascular surgical team can lead to outcomes, which are comparable with the general transplant population without significant aortic disease.