An optimal combination for EVAR: low profile endograft body and continuous spiral stent limbs. to evaluate the outcomes of EVAR performed with a new generation of bifurcated endografts and limbs.prospectively collected data from fifty consecutive patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) treated at our institution with a Low Profile Zenith(®) bifurcated body/Zenith(®) Spiral-Z legs combo were analysed. AngioCT scans and Ultrasound exams were performed prior to discharge. Ultrasound examination was repeated 6 months after the procedure to assess endograft patency and to depict endoleaksMedian age was 70.6 years [50-88] and median ASA score was 3 [2-4]. Median aortic diameter was 56 mm [49-81]. Of the 100 external iliac access vessels, 14 had a diameter of 6 mm or lower. All endografts were successfully implanted. Post-operative Ultrasound examination and angioCT scan depicted both 1 type Ia, and 10 and 19 type 2 endoleaks respectively. An asymptomatic thrombosis of the left external iliac artery distal to the endograft limb was also depicted. 30-day mortality rate was 0%. Two patients died respectively three and four months after EVAR. Both deaths were not aneurysm related. All patients underwent an ultrasound exam 6-12 months after EVAR. All endografts main bodies and limbs were patent. Five endoleaks were depicted, all were type II endoleaks (the early type Ia endoleak had sealed spontaneously it was confirmed by an angioCT scan). One patient presented a significant stenosis of the left iliac limb at the level of a narrow and calcified aortic bifurcation. It was successfully treated by bilateral iliac angioplasty and kissing balloon stenting.EVAR performed with the Zenith LP main body in combination with Spiral-Z Iliac Legs is safe and effective. No limb occlusions were diagnosed at the 6 month follow up even in challenging iliac anatomies usually considered as contra indications for EVAR. Our first results are most satisfying and calling to be completed by a longer follow up.