Totally laparoscopic bypass surgery for aortoiliac occlusive disease in China. Totally laparoscopic aortic surgery is still in its infancy in China. One of the factors preventing adoption of this technique is its steep learning curve. The objective of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and safety of laparoscopic surgery for aortoiliac occlusive disease (AIOD).From November 2008 to November 2012, 12 patients were treated for severe AIOD with a totally laparoscopic bypass surgery at our university hospital. The demographic data, operative data, postoperative recovery data, morbidity and mortality were analyzed and compared with those of conventional open approach.Twelve totally laparoscopic aortic surgery procedures, including two iliofemoral bypasses (IFB), three unilateral aortofemoral bypasses (UAFB), and seven aortobifemoral bypasses (ABFB), were performed. Conversion to open procedures was required in three patients. The mean operation time was 518 (range, 325-840) minutes, mean blood loss was 962 (range, 400-2500) ml, and mean aortic anastomosis time was 75 (range, 40-150) minutes. Compared with conventional open approach for aortofemoral bypasses performed concomitantly during this period, laparoscopic patients required fewer narcotics and a shorter in-hospital stay and earlier recovery. Postoperative complications developed in four patients, including a single patient with transient left hydronephrosis, ischemic colonic fistula and pneumonia, residual aortic stenosis proximal to the anastomotic site, and asymptomatic partial left renal infarction. All patients recovered and were discharged on postoperative Days 7-14 except one patient that died of respiratory failure on Day 46. All grafts were patent with follow-up imaging performed by Duplex examination, with a mean follow-up time of 10.7 (range, 2-61) months.Totally laparoscopic bypass surgery is a feasible and safe procedure for AIOD, but attention needs to be paid to improve laparoscopic skills of vascular surgery in order to minimize morbidity during the learning curve of this advanced procedure.