Outcome after open surgery repair in endovascular-suitable patients with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. Endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) has been suggested in several studies to be superior to open surgery repair (OSR) for the treatment of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms (rAAAs), but this finding might be affected by selection bias based on aneurysm morphology and patient characteristics. We tested rAAA anatomy according to EVAR suitability in patients undergoing OSR to assess the impact on mortality.This retrospective analysis reports on 83 patients with rAAAs treated between November 2002 and July 2013. Pre-operative computed tomography (CT) scans were evaluated based on EVAR suitability and were determined by blinded independent reviewers. CT scans were lacking due to acquisition in an external institution with no availability (n = 9) or solely ultrasound evaluations (n = 8). In addition patient characteristics and outcomes were assessed.All patients who underwent OSR and who had available preoperative CT scans were included in the study (n = 66). In summary, 42 % of the patients (28/66 95 % confidence interval [CI], 30.5 - 54.4) were considered eligible for EVAR according to pre-operative CT scans and 58 % of the patients (38/66EVAR-suitable patients had a highly significant mortality reduction undergoing OSR. Thus, the present study proposes that EVAR suitability is a positive predictor for survival after open repair of rAAA.Hintergrund: In mehreren Studien wurde bei rupturierten abdominellen Aortenaneurysmen (rAAA) ein Überlebensvorteil durch die endovaskulären Behandlung gegenüber der offen-chirurgischen Versorgung berichtet. Jedoch bleibt weiterhin unklar, ob die präsentierten Ergebnisse durch die Aneurysmenmorphologien sowie Patientencharakteristika beeinflusst werden. Wir haben daher die Anatomie von rupturierten Aneurysmen unter Berücksichtigung einer möglichen endovaskulären Behandlung untersucht, um deren Einfluss auf die Letalität nach ausschließlich offen-chirurgischer Versorgung zu erfassen. Patienten und Methoden: Die retrospektive Studie umfasst 83 Patienten mit einem rupturierten abdominellen Aortenaneurysmata, welche in der Zeit zwischen November 2002 und Juli 2013 behandelt wurden. Präoperative computertomographische Angiographien (CTA) wurden in Hinblick auf Eignung zur endovaskulären Versorgung analysiert, die durch verblindete unabhängige Untersucher bestimmt wurde. In 9 Fällen fehlten CTA aufgrund einer mangelnden Verfügbarkeit der Daten aus externen Krankenhäusern und in 8 Fällen aufgrund ausschließlich durchgeführter Ultraschalluntersuchung. Des Weiteren wurden Patientencharakteristika und Letalitätsraten ausgewertet. Ergebnisse: In die vorliegende Studie wurden ausschließlich Patienten eingeschlossen, die offen chirurgisch versorgt wurden und bei denen CTA zu Auswertung vorlagen (n = 66). Entsprechend der CTA waren 42 % der Patienten (28/66 95 % Konfidenzintervall [CI], 30.5 - 54.4) für eine Stentgraftanlage geeignet und 58 % der Patienten (38/66