State-of-the-art aortic imaging: Part II - applications in transcatheter aortic valve replacement and endovascular aortic aneurysm repair. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) as well as thoracic and abdominal endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR and EVAR) rely on accurate pre- and postprocedural imaging. This review article discusses the application of imaging, including preprocedural assessment and measurements as well as postprocedural imaging of complications. Furthermore, the exciting perspective of computational fluid dynamics (CFD) based on cross-sectional imaging is presented. TAVR is a minimally invasive alternative for treatment of aortic valve stenosis in patients with high age and multiple comorbidities who cannot undergo traditional open surgical repair. Given the lack of direct visualization during the procedure, pre- and peri-procedural imaging forms an essential part of the intervention. Computed tomography angiography (CTA) is the imaging modality of choice for preprocedural planning. Routine postprocedural follow-up is performed by echocardiography to confirm treatment success and detect complications. EVAR and TEVAR are minimally invasive alternatives to open surgical repair of aortic pathologies. CTA constitutes the preferred imaging modality for both preoperative planning and postoperative follow-up including detection of endoleaks. Magnetic resonance imaging is an excellent alternative to CT for postoperative follow-up, and is especially beneficial for younger patients given the lack of radiation. Ultrasound is applied in screening and postoperative follow-up of abdominal aortic aneurysms, but cross-sectional imaging is required once abnormalities are detected. Contrast-enhanced ultrasound may be as sensitive as CTA in detecting endoleaks. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) sowie thorakale und abdominelle endovaskuläre Aortenrekonstruktion (TEVAR und EVAR) bedürfen einer genauen prä- und postoperativen Bildgebung. Dieser Reviewartikel diskutiert die Anwendung der Bildgebung einschließlich der präoperativen Evaluation und Messungen sowie der postoperativen Bildgebung von Komplikationen. TAVR ist eine minimal-invasive Alternative zur Behandlung der Aortenklappenstenose bei Patienten in hohem Alter und mit multiplen Komorbiditäten, die nicht der traditionellen offenen chirurgischen Operation zugeführt werden können. Angesichts der fehlenden direkten Visualisierung während der Prozedur stellt die prä- und peri-prozedurale Bildgebung einen essentiellen Teil der Intervention dar. Die computertomographische Angiographie (CTA) ist die Bildgebungsmodalität der Wahl zur präprozeduralen Plannung. In der klinischen Routine wird die Bildgebung in der postoperativen Nachsorge mittels Echokardiographie durchgeführt. EVAR und TEVAR sind minimal-invasive Alternativen zur offenen chirurgischen Operation aortaler Pathologien. Die CTA stellt die bevorzugte Bildgebungsmodalität sowohl für die präoperative Planung als auch für die postoperative Nachsorge dar, einschließlich der Erkennung von Endoleckagen. Die Magnetresonanztomographie ist eine exzellente Alternative zur CT für die postoperative Nachsorge, und ist angesichts der Strahlenfreiheit von besonderem Nutzen für jüngere Patienten.