CT signal heterogeneity of abdominal aortic aneurysm as a possible predictive biomarker for expansion. There is a need for prognostic biomarkers for risk assessment of small abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). Since CT textural analysis of tissue is a recognized feature of adverse biology and patient outcome in other diseases, we investigated it as a possible biomarker in small AAA.Fifty consecutive patients (46-men, 4-woman, median-age 75 y, range 56-85) with small AAA (3-5.5 cm) under surveillance undergoing serial ultrasound were prospectively recruited and assessed at baseline with CT texture analysis (CTTA) and 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18F-FDG-PET). We followed forty patients (36-men, 4-woman, median-age=74 y, range 60-85, participation rate=80% for 1 year. For each axial image, CTTA using the filtration-histogram technique was carried out using a software algorithm that selectively extracts texture features of different coarseness (fine, medium and coarse) and intensity variation. Standard-deviation (SD) and kurtosis (K) at each feature-scale were measured. The maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) of 18F-FDG in each axial image of the AAA was also measured with corrections for blood pool 18F-FDG activity to assess AAA metabolic activity. Specificity, sensitivity, and c-statistics were calculated with 95% confidence intervals for prediction of significant AAA expansion (≥2 mm) by CTTA measures before and after adjusting for clinical variables.The median aneurysm expansion at 12 months was 2.0 mm, (IQR 0.0-4.0). Coarse texture SD correlated inversely with AAA SUVmax (rs=-0.456, P=0.003). Medium coarse texture K correlated significantly with future AAA expansion adjusted for baseline size (rs=0.343, P=0.030). AAA SUVmax correlated inversely with AAA expansion corrected for baseline size (rs=-0.383, P=0.015). Medium texture K was a strong predictor of significant AAA expansion (area under the Receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) curve was 0.813) after adjusting for clinical variables.We have shown evidence that CT signal heterogeneity measurements in small aortic aneurysm may be considered as a risk stratification tool in future prospective studies to identify aneurysms at risk of significant expansion. CT textural data appears to reflect AAA metabolism measured by PET.