Specific contrast ultrasound using sterically stabilized microbubbles for early diagnosis of thromboembolic disease in a rabbit model. Specific contrast ultrasound is widely applied in diagnostic procedures on humans but remains underused in veterinary medicine. The objective of this study was to evaluate the use of microbubble-based contrast for rapid ultrasonographic diagnosis of thrombosis in small animals, using male New Zealand white rabbits (average weight about 3.5 kg) as a model. It was hypothesized that the use of microbubble-based contrast agents will result in a faster and more precise diagnosis in our model of thrombosis. A pro-coagulant environment had been previously established by combining endothelial denudation and external vessel wall damage. Visualization of thrombi was achieved by application of contrast microbubbles [sterically stabilized, phospholipid-based microbubbles filled with sulfur hexafluoride (SF₆) gas] and ultrasonography. As a result, rapid and clear diagnosis of thrombi in aorta abdominalis was achieved within 10 to 30 s (mean: 17.3 s) by applying microbubbles as an ultrasound contrast medium. In the control group, diagnosis was not possible or took 90 to 180 s. Therefore, sterically stabilized microbubbles were found to be a suitable contrast agent for the rapid diagnosis of thrombi in an experimental model in rabbits. This contrast agent could be of practical importance in small animal practice for rapid diagnosis of thrombosis.L’échographie par contraste spécifique est une procédure diagnostique couramment utilisée chez les humains mais demeure sous-utilisée chez les animaux. L’objectif de la présente étude était d’évaluer l’utilisation du contraste basée sur les micro-bulles pour le diagnostic échographique rapide de thrombose chez les petits animaux, en utilisant comme modèle le lapin blanc de Nouvelle-Zélande mâle (poids moyen de 3,5 kg). L’hypothèse a été émise que l’utilisation d’agents de contraste à base de micro-bulles résulterait en un diagnostic plus rapide et plus précis dans notre modèle de thrombose. Un environnement pro-coagulant a préalablement été établi en combinant le dénudement endothélial et du dommage à la paroi externe du vaisseau. La visualisation des thrombi a été obtenue par application de micro-bulles de contraste [micro-bulles à base de phospholipides remplies d’hexafluorure de soufre (SF