Posterior restoration procedures and the long-term results in indicated patients with dilated cardiomyopathy †. Non-transplant surgery for dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) has been in the process of development. We performed posterior restoration for dilated akinetic or dyskinetic lesions in patients with DCM and obtained favourable outcomes. The early and long-term results of the procedures are discussed.Between 2005 and 2013, posterior restoration procedures (PRPs) for DCM were electively performed in 58 patients (17 with ischaemic and 41 with non-ischaemic DCM). There were 45 men and 13 women with a mean age of 56 ± 12 years old. The mean preoperative ejection fraction was 24% and the preoperative New York Heart Association functional class was Class III in 24 and Class IV in 34 patients with intravenous inotrope support. Indications for PRPs were determined by using speckle-tracking echocardiography of the posterior region of the left ventricle before surgery (GE ultrasound machine, Vivid 7 or Vivid E9). After cardioplegic arrest, mitral surgery or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) was performed and the posterior left ventricular (LV) muscle between bilateral papillary muscles was incised or resected. The LV apex was preserved and cryoablation was applied between the cut edge and the posterior mitral annulus. All patients were followed up by transthoracic echocardiography.In addition to PRP, mitral surgery was performed in 56 (plasty 51, replacement 5), tricuspid annuloplasty in 21, CABG in 17, cardiac resynchronization therapy in 6 and LV lead implantation in 27 patients. Perioperative intra-aortic balloon pumping was used in 9 patients and there was no hospital mortality. After the operation, 35 patients (60%) improved their functional class to Class I or II. In the late follow-up, there were 14 cardiac deaths (congestive heart failure 10, ventricular arrhythmia 4). The 3- and 8-year survival rates were 77 or 66%, respectively.DCM with posterior akinesis or dyskinesis indicated by speckle-tracking echocardiography can be surgically treated with PRP. Our results demonstrated that 60% of the selected patients could avoid heart transplantation with relief of their symptoms.