Comparison of conventional and transesophageal echocardiography with magnetic resonance imaging for anatomical mapping of thoracic aortic dissection. A dual noninvasive imaging study with anatomical and/or angiographic validation. Thirty-five consecutive patients with clinically suspected aortic dissection were subjected to a dual noninvasive imaging protocol using comprehensive echocardiography and ECG-triggered MRI with multi-slice spin echo and cine sequences in random order. The purpose of this dual imaging study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of two-dimensional and color-coded Doppler echocardiography using the conventional transthoracic (TTE) and the transesophageal approach (TEE) with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for the exact morphologic evaluation and anatomical mapping of the thoracic aorta. The results of each diagnostic method were validated independently against the 'gold standard' of intraoperative findings (n = 17), necropsy (n = 4) or contrast angiography (n = 22). Compared to conventional transthoracic echocardiography both TEE and MRI were more reliable in detecting aortic dissections (TTE vs TEE: p < 0.02 TTE vs MRI: p < 0.01) and associated epiphenomena. Moreover, the reliability of TTE decreased significantly from proximal to distal segments of the aorta, e.g. from the ascending segment to the arch (p < 0.05) and to the descending aorta (p < 0.005), whereas the sensitivities of both TEE and MRI were excellent irrespective of the site of dissection. With regard to epiphenomena such as thrombus formation and entry location, MRI emerged as the optimal method for detailed morphologic information in all segments of the aorta. No serious side effects were encountered with either method. Thus, in patients with suspected acute or subacute aortic dissections the echocardiographic assessment should include the transesophageal approach for significant improvement of the moderate sensitivity and specificity of TTE. Both TEE and MRI are non-traumatic, safe and diagnostically accurate to identify and classify acute and subacute dissections of the thoracic aorta irrespective of their location. MRI provides superb anatomical mapping of all type A and B dissections and more detailed information on the site of entry and thrombus formation than TEE. These features of TEE and MRI may render retrograde contrast angiography obsolete in the setting of thoracic aortic dissection and may encourage surgical interventions exclusively on the basis of noninvasive imaging.