Vanishing De Vega annuloplasty for functional tricuspid regurgitation. Annuloplasty is performed for significant functional tricuspid regurgitation even if it is presumed that in some cases the regurgitation will regress spontaneously after correction of the left-sided lesion. In an attempt to avoid the drawbacks of a permanent annuloplasty, we used a reabsorbable De Vega annuloplasty in a selected group of patients. Of 73 patients with functional tricuspid regurgitation operated on between May 1989 and May 1991, 25 with pulmonary arteriolar resistance below 400 dyne.sec.cm-5 underwent a De Vega annuloplasty with 2-0 polydioxanone suture. The diagnosis of significant functional tricuspid regurgitation (mean 2.74 +/- 1.05) was established by transthoracic color Doppler echocardiography in all patients. The degree of functional tricuspid regurgitation and pulmonary arteriolar resistance were measured with the patients anesthetized. In 16 patients the regurgitation remained severe (3+ to 4+) and in 9 it was moderate (2+). Twenty-three patients had mitral (12 repairs, 11 replacements) and 9 had aortic (4 repairs, 5 replacements) valve operations. The immediate postbypass residual functional tricuspid regurgitation was 0 to 1+ in 23 and 0 in 2. There was 1 (4%) operative death. The maximum follow-up period was 24 months (mean 13.9 months). There were 2 (8.3%) late deaths. Six patients underwent reoperation because of mitral dysfunction. Four of them who were reoperated on between 2 and 5 weeks after the initial procedure showed no recurrence of functional tricuspid regurgitation. The other 2, reoperated on at 5 and 10 months after the first operation, had recurrence of functional tricuspid regurgitation. Visual inspection of these two tricuspid valves showed a dilated anulus with otherwise normal valves. All surviving patients are in New York Heart Association functional class I or II without significant functional tricuspid regurgitation (mean 0.78 +/- 0.56). We concluded that functional tricuspid regurgitation in patients with low pulmonary arteriolar resistance can be adequately treated by a vanishing De Vega annuloplasty, which will stent the tricuspid anulus for about 4 months.