Aortic valve debridement by ultrasonic surgical aspirator in degenerative, aortic valve stenosis: follow-up with Doppler echocardiography. Recently there has been an emphasis on reconstructing diseases native valves as an alternative to prosthetic valve replacement. Whereas the surgical repair of aortic valve stenosis has been always problematic. This study was performed to estimate the clinical results after aortic valve debridement using ultrasonic energy.Between 1990-1994 26 patients underwent ultrasonic aortic valve decalcification. There were 15 females and 11 males, the age was in average 74 years. As a concomitant diagnosis 88% patients (23) had mostly mild, aortic valve insufficiency, 16 (61%) had coronary artery disease and 11 (42%) had mild mitral valve incompetence. All of the patients were operated with cardiopulmonary bypass using moderate hypothermia, cardioplegical arrest and topical cooling for myocardial protection. The calcifications were removed tangentially using Cavitron Ultrasonic Surgical Aspirator. (CUSA), CAVITRON, USA. Leaflet perforation and/or unsatisfactory valve closure have been indications for aortic valve replacement.Two operative death (8%) have occurred and six patients have died in the further course (follow-up mean 17 months ranging from 4 to 61 months). Postoperative Doppler-Echocardiography results taken directly after surgery and then again 17 months later (n = 18) showed a decrease of peak and mean gradients across the aortic valve three and two times respectively (p < 0.001). 17 months after debridement we observed a mild rise in both gradients (by peak gradient p < 0.05). Directly postoperative, the aortic valve area increased doubly and decreased 17 months later slight, but it was still statistically significant in comparison with our preoperative data (p < 0.001). Follow-up echocardiography demonstrated late onset of moderate aortic valve insufficiency in 6 patients. The classification of New York Heart Association was improved in 13 (72%) survivors after 17 months.Ultrasonic debridement of aortic valve stenosis allows precise and energy-controlled removal of calcium, increased doubly the valve area and decreased of peak and mean gradients statistically significant. The advantages of preserving the native aortic valve in elderly patients are relative good arguments although a longer follow-up is necessary to establish this procedure.