Feasibility of transgastric ultrasonography of the abdominal aorta. Transesophageal echocardiography provides detailed images of the thoracic aorta, but imaging of the abdominal aorta and its branches does not occur routinely when the transesophageal echocardiography transducer is advanced into the stomach. Transgastric aortic ultrasonography (TAUS) was investigated as an intraoperative procedure to determine whether transgastric imaging of the abdominal aortic, mesenteric, and renal arteries could be obtained and whether pathologic lesions of these arteries could be identified.Twelve patients with diagnoses of aortic aneurysmal or occlusive disease, chronic mesenteric ischemia, or renal artery stenosis that required operative treatment were examined. Preoperative transabdominal duplex imaging was performed in all 12 patients. Transgastric B-mode and color-flow ultrasonography of the abdominal aorta and branches was performed as an intraoperative procedure with the patients under general anesthesia. After the abdomen was opened but before the vascular reconstruction was performed, the transesophageal transducer was advanced into the stomach and directed by the surgeon's hand to obtain an image of the underlying aorta and branches. TAUS images were compared with those obtained by standard transabdominal duplex imaging.TAUS provided high-resolution images of both aneurysmal and occlusive aortic disease. In all 12 cases the images of the aortic lumen, plaque, and thrombus obtained with TAUS had greater detail and better resolution than those obtained with transabdominal duplex imaging. The origins of the renal arteries were seen with TAUS in 23 of 24 cases, whereas transabdominal ultrasonography obtained images of the origins in only 6 of 24 cases (p < 0.01). In the five renal arteries and the one mesenteric artery with hemodynamically significant stenoses in which transabdominal ultrasonography identified the stenoses based on velocity criteria alone, TAUS visualized the occlusive plaque at the origin of the renal and mesenteric arteries.Intraoperative TAUS is feasible and may be useful for evaluating atherosclerotic disease of the abdominal aorta and renal arteries.