Endovascular repair of peripheral aneurysms, pseudoaneurysms, and arteriovenous fistulas. Endovascular repair of peripheral arterial lesions was performed in 10 patients including two iliac aneurysms, two iliac anastomotic pseudoaneurysms, one subclavian pseudoaneurysm, one axillary anastomotic disruption, two prosthetic pseudoaneurysms, and two posttraumatic arteriovenous (AV) fistulas. The indications for repair were aneurysm size in five cases, massive hematoma in one, threatened prosthetic dialysis graft in two, venous hypertension with non-healing ulcer in one, and arm pain in one. Vascular access was obtained through surgical cutdown in all cases, via the femoral artery in five patients, the proximal brachial artery in three and a prosthetic graft in two. Stented prosthetic grafts were used in five cases (1 polyester and polytetrafluoroethylene 4 [PTFE]), and PTFE-covered stents in five cases. Concomitant procedures were done in four patients including two open repairs of a common femoral artery aneurysm, a transluminal dilatation of a proximal aortic anastomotic stenosis, and an iliac artery transluminal angioplasty. Eight of 10 cases were technically successful. Completion arteriography revealed complete exclusion of all lesions, except for one minimal proximal stented graft leak in a pseudoaneurysm, and an incomplete obliteration of an AV fistula. No complications occurred. Operative time ranged from 45 min to 5 hours. Postoperative hospital stay was 1 day in five patients, 2 days in three patients, and 4 days in two patients. Follow-up contrast CT scan, arteriography, or duplex scanning demonstrated complete exclusion of all lesions except an AV fistula, and decrease in size in three aneurysms. The proximal leak initially present in a stented graft resolved. All grafts and covered stents remained patent at 2-19 months of followup. Endovascular exclusion of peripheral arterial aneurysms, pseudoaneurysms, and AV fistulas can be done with a high degree of technical success, low morbidity, and short hospital stay. Short-term follow up is encouraging, however, long term follow up of these procedures is warranted to assess durability of the repair and absence of complications.