Spinal cord protection using hypothermic cardiocirculatory arrest in extended repair of recoarctation and persistent hypoplastic aortic arch. In recurrent coarctation collateral circulation may not be sufficient to maintain adequate perfusion of the lower body during the period of surgical repair. Different techniques such as interposition of a Gott-shunt, use of left heart bypass or hypothermic cardiocirculatory arrest are used to prevent spinal cord injury.Twenty-eight operations for recurrent coarctation were performed in 26 patients following end-to-end anastomosis (58%), patch plasty (21%), subclavian flap aortoplasty (14%) and graft interposition (7%). Associated cardiac defects were present in 77% of the patients. Eleven patients who had adequate (> 50 mmHg) distal perfusion pressure during a test occlusion were operated on using simple cross-clamping (group I, mean age 8.5 +/- 3.8 years). In group I, end-to-end anastomosis was performed in nine patients and graft interposition in two patients. In 17 cases (including two patients from group I) with insufficient collateral circulation and with persistent hypoplasia of the arch, hypothermic cardiocirculatory arrest was used (group II, mean age 12.8 +/- 9.6 years). In group II end-to-end anastomosis was performed in three patients and graft interposition in 14 patients. Mean bypass-time was 116 +/- 36 min and arrest-time 33 +/- 16 min. Hypothermic cardiocirculatory arrest was begun when nasopharyngeal temperature was below 20 degrees C, corresponding to a rectal temperature of 24 +/- 3 degrees C.Hypothermic cardiocirculatory arrest allowed open reconstruction of the arch and/or complete or partial replacement of the arch and the coarctation segment. In-hospital mortality was 0 and 5.9% in group I and II, respectively. The one patient who died in group II had simultaneous correction of an anomalous pulmonary venous connection and death was unrelated to the method of coarctation repair. Reversible laryngeal nerve paresis was observed in two patients in group II, no other neurologic complications were observed in either group. Postoperative gradients over the repair site were less than 20 mmHg by Doppler-echocardiography. Two patients of group I had to have a second, early reoperation because of stenosis at the anastomotic site. Reconstruction of the distal aortic arch was then performed during hypothermic cardiocirculatory arrest.The use of hypothermic cardiocirculatory arrest in this special indication is a safe method which allows open reconstruction of the coarctation site and the aortic arch and protection of the spinal cord. The need for early reoperation because of inadequate repair may be reduced.