Diagnostic and therapeutic concepts of HPV infection in HIV-positive women. Among HIV-seropositive women there is a high prevalence of anogenital human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. HPV-DNA is more frequent detected in cervicovaginal-lavage specimens from HIV-seropositive women as in those from HIV-seronegative women. We and others suggest that HIV-infection increases the risk to have HPV-associated lesions of the lower female genital tract, especially the risk for developing a squamous intraepithelial lesion of the cervix. In this report we describe the current diagnostic and therapeutic strategies in HIV-seropositive women with HPV-infection. The gynecological examination should be performed at six to twelve month intervals, including the colposcopy and the Pap smear test. We hope to improve the quality of our screening program by doing an additional HPV-test. At last we investigate the CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts because it is observed that women with low CD4+ cell counts (< 200/microliter) were more likely to have persistent HPV-infection as those with higher counts (> 500/microliter). The treatment method is dependent on the development of the HPV-associated lesion and the clinical status of the HIV infected women. In cases with external warts local application of Condylox should be the first line treatment. Probably in about few months we could use other drugs like Wartec or Aldara in Germany. But the effectiveness of these drugs in HIV-positive women has to be proven yet. In the cause of persistence of external warts or recurrence of the disease the systemical application of Intron A or Roferon A is possible. The CO2-lasertreatment is performed under colposcopic guidance, especially in cases with multicentric condylomatous lesions. The treatment of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) by CO2-laservaporisation or Loop Electrosurgical Excision Procedure (LEEP) is based on the clear colposcopic visualisation of the upper limit of the lesion. If CIN reaches the endocervix, being out of colposcopic view, and the squamocolumnar junction is localised in the endocervical canal conisation by laser or cold knife has to be performed. Before performing the treatment of CIN one should exclude multicentric cervical, vaginal and vulval intraepithelial neoplasia by colposcopy, because multicentric intraepithelial neoplasia of the lower female genital tract is more frequently than in HIV-seronegative women. Multicentric disease seems to be one cause of the high recurrence of HIV-seropositive women. However, higher levels of immunosuppression (CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts < 200/microliter) are also important determinants of recurrence of the disease. Therefore, an accurate short-term follow-up with colposcopy, Pap test and HPV test should be carried out after the treatment of HIV-seropositive women with low CD4+ counts.