Adeno-associated virus infection and cervical neoplasia: is there a protective role against human papillomavirus-related carcinogenesis? The aim of this study was to investigate whether adeno-associated virus (AAV) infection can be associated with a reduced risk for human papillomavirus (HPV)-related cervical neoplasia. The study was a prospective descriptive analysis of the prevalence of AAV and HPV DNA sequences in women with and without neoplastic cervical lesions. The study population consisted of 373 women aged 19-65 years old who attended the outpatient colposcopy clinic of a tertiary university center. Cytologic and colposcopic examination, as well as AAV-DNA and HPV-DNA detection and typing were performed in all individuals biopsies (histological verification) and treatment were performed as appropriate. Women with normal Papanicolaou smear test and normal colposcopic findings served as the control group (n=280). Those with histologically proven cervical pathology were categorized into three groups: (a) women with grade 1 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN 1) (n=31), (b) women with grades 2 and 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN 2, 3) (n=45), and (c) women with invasive cervical cancer (n=17). AAV infection was confirmed in 63 (16.80%) women. AAV detection was not statistically different between HPV (-) and HPV (+) controls (P=0.06). In the disease groups, however, the prevalence of AAV was statistically significantly lower in the HPV (+) relative to the HPV (-) patients (P=0.0009, P=0.00001, and P=0.0225, for women with low-grade cervical lesions, for women with high-grade cervical lesions, and for women with cervical cancer, respectively). No difference in the prevalence of AAV DNA between HPV-positive and HPV-negative unaffected (control) women is observed. Nevertheless, our results indicate that HPV-infected individuals are less likely to develop cervical neoplasia if AAV is present, and that AAV probably demonstrates a protective role against the pathogenic consequences of HPV infection.