NucliSENS EasyQ HPV v1 test - Testing for oncogenic activity of human papillomaviruses. Analytical sensitivity of DNA-based assays to detect infection with human papillomaviruses is very high, but clinical specificity for cervical cancer strongly depends on the age of the patient and case classification. To solve the dilemma between sensitivity and specificity, a new generation of assays focuses on the pathogenic factors that underlie the development of HPV-associated tumors: the expression of the viral oncogenes E6 and E7. Demonstration of persistent expression of these mRNAs or expression in the context of relevant clinical symptoms has a strong positive predictive value for the development of HPV-associated carcinomas and strongly warrants further diagnostic action.The NucliSENS EasyQ HPV v1 test was designed to test cervical scrapes for the expression of the oncogenic E6/E7 mRNA from the five most common carcinogenic HPV types (16, 18, 31, 33 and 45). The test can be used for confirmation and risk stratification of individuals with proven infection with high risk papillomaviruses.In order to establish performance of the assay, sensitivity, specificity, repeatability, and reproducibility were determined with artificial and clinical specimens. Further, a total of 420 cervical scrapes were tested and the results directly compared to the CE-market device PreTect HPV-Proofer assay (NorChip, Klokkarstua, Norway). For arbitration of discordant clinical results, the specimens were rated according to Pap-classification and the presence of HPV DNA was determined.The limit of detection for the five HPV types 16, 18, 31, 33, and 45 ranged from 2.3x10(2) to 3.0x10(4) copies/mL on a background of 5x10(3) HPV-negative HS67 cells. No cross-reactivity for other viral, bacterial, or fungal agents known to be potentially present in cervical fluids was detected. Repeatability and reproducibility were shown by testing panels of HPV-spiked artificial and clinical samples. A comparative analysis of 420 cervical scrapes demonstrated an overall concordance of >90% between the NucliSENS EasyQ HPV test and the technologically related PreTect HPV-Proofer assay.