Application of pathological diagnosis by rapid paraffin sections for biopsy in the diagnosis and treatment of cervical diseases. To evaluate the application of pathological diagnosis by rapid paraffin sections in the diagnosis and treatment of cervical diseases.A total of 176 cases from our hospital between September 2009 and January 2010 with abnormal cervical cancer screening (including abnormal cytology result and high-risk HPV continuous positive) were randomly divided into 2 groups. Eighty-seven cases of them whose biopsy were got by Belinson forceps under the direction of colposcopy with rapid paraffin sections by ultrasonic histopathological rapid processor and BT transparent agents were selected as group A, while 89 cases with conventional paraffin sections were selected as group B. The production time and quality for paraffin sections were analyzed in the two groups. Those diagnosed as cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) II or even worse and some special patients with CINI in the two groups received surgery, including loop electrosurgical procedure (LEEP), cold knife conization (CKC), hysterectomy or radical hysterectomy. Tissue obtained after surgery was sent for routine pathological examination. If the results of postoperative routine pathological examination were inconsistent with the rapid or routine biopsy pathological examination, the heavier results were regard as the final diagnoses. The pathological results and diagnose accordance rates were recorded and compared between group A and group B.The quality of sections in two groups were all satisfied or basically satisfied to meet the diagnostic requirements. There were statistically significant difference in average production time between group A and B (40 minutes vs 24 hours, P<0.05). Thirty patients in group A and 32 patients in group B received surgery. The coincidence rate of biopsy pathological results and final diagnoses were 93% (28/30) for group A and 91% (29/32) for group B, in which there were not statistically significant difference (P>0.05).Rapid paraffin sections technology is safe, accurate and economical for rapid pathological diagnosis of cervical diseases, which is worthy for being widely used in hospitals.