Prognostic factors in severe alcoholic liver injury. Nara Liver Study Group. Severe alcoholic liver injury has been relatively rare, but is gradually increasing in Japan. The clinical features and prognostic factors in severe alcoholic liver injury were retrospectively investigated in 105 patients, consisting of 3 with severe alcoholic hepatitis (SAH), 43 with cirrhosis with superimposed alcoholic hepatitis [liver cirrhosis (LC)+alcoholic hepatitis (AH)], 38 with AH, and 21 with alcoholic cirrhosis. Seven of the 105 patients (6.7%, 2 with SAH and 5 with LC+AH) died of hepatic failure. Patients with SAH showed severe hyperbilirubinemia, reduced hepatic biosynthetic capacity, and marked acute inflammatory reactions, and developed multiple organ failure, such as disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), renal failure, acute pancreatitis, or pneumonia. Two SAH patients died within 1 month, whereas five with LC+AH died within 77 days during the second episode of AH. In these nonsurvivors, the serum total bilirubin (T.Bil) level was not normalized, and the hepaplastin test (HPT), serum albumin, cholesterol, and platelet count were not markedly improved after the first episode of AH. In the survivors, elevation of AST lasted longer, and the improvement of T.Bil, hepatic biosynthetic capacity, and the platelet count were much less in patients with LC+AH than in those with AH. Multivariate analysis using the Cox proportional hazards model showed serum C-reactive protein (CRP) and DIC as significant independent prognostic factors among SAH, LC+AH, and AH groups. When factors related to multiple organ failure, such as DIC and renal failure, were excluded, T.Bil and CRP were selected as independent prognostic factors. In patients with LC+AH and AH, CRP, and HPT were shown to be significant independent prognostic factors. These results suggest that SAH with multiple organ failure, and another episode of AH in advanced LC with hyperbilirubinemia and reduced hepatic biosynthetic capacity, are indicative of an extremely poor prognosis in chronic alcoholics.