Expression of the adhesion molecules Mac-1 and L-selectin on neutrophils in acute pancreatitis is protease- and complement-dependent. To examine the effect of pancreatic proteases on the expression of the adhesion molecules Mac-1 and l-selectin on neutrophils, and the role of complement activation in this process.Sequestration of neutrophils in the pancreatic and pulmonary microvasculature characterizes acute pancreatitis.Serum was collected from inbred rats after induction of necrotizing pancreatitis trypsinogen activation peptide was measured to quantify trypsin activation. Normal rat serum was also collected and subjected to limited trypsin digestion with and without the addition of complement inhibitor. Both groups of sera were incubated in vitro with healthy leukocytes. Expression of Mac-1 and L-selectin on neutrophils was measured quantitatively by flow cytometry. To assess the consequences of these events in vivo, trypsinated serum with or without complement inhibition or control serum was infused intravenous into rats. Soybean trypsin inhibitor was added to serum before injections to block residual trypsin activity. Pancreatic and pulmonary injury was quantitated by histology, measurement of edema, and myeloperoxidase activity.Mac-1 expression on neutrophils incubated with pancreatitis serum was increased compared with controls, whereas L-selectin was decreased. Neutrophils incubated with trypsinated serum also showed upregulation of Mac-1 and downregulation of L-selectin, particularly with trypsin at 10(-4) mol/L. Addition of soluble complement receptor 1 abrogated both Mac-1 upregulation and L-selectin downregulation. Lungs of animals injected with trypsinated serum showed increased edema and myeloperoxidase activity, which were reduced by soluble complement receptor 1.Trypsin-generated complement activation participates in the upregulation of Mac-1 and shedding of L-selectin on neutrophils in acute pancreatitis. Protease or complement inhibition may be effective in preventing leukocyte migration and subsequent local and remote organ injury.