Ghrelin attenuates the development of acute pancreatitis in rat. Ghrelin, a circulating growth hormone-releasing peptide isolated from human and rat stomach, stimulates growth hormone secretion, food intake and exhibits gastroprotective properties. Ghrelin is predominantly produced by a population of endocrine cells in the gastric mucosa, but its presence in bowel, pancreas, pituitary and hypothalamus has been reported. In human fetal pancreas, ghrelin is expressed in a prominent endocrine cell population. In adult pancreatic islets the population of these cell is reduced. The aim of present study was to investigate the influence of ghrelin administration on the development of acute pancreatitis.Acute pancreatitis was induced in rat by caerulein injection. Ghrelin was administrated twice (30 min prior to the first caerulein or saline injection and 3 h later) at the doses: 2, 10 or 20 nmol/kg. Immediately after cessation of caerulein or saline injections the following parameters were measured: pancreatic blood flow, plasma lipase activity, plasma interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and interleukin 10 (IL-10) concentration, pancreatic DNA synthesis, and morphological signs of pancreatitis.Administration of ghrelin without induction of pancreatitis did not affect significantly any parameter tested. Caerulein led to the development of acute edematous pancreatitis. Treatment with ghrelin at the dose 2 nmol/kg, during induction of pancreatitis, was without effect on pancreatic histology or biochemical and functional parameters. Treatment with ghrelin at the dose 10 and 20 nmol/kg attenuated the development of pancreatitis and the effects of both doses were similar. Administration of ghrelin (10 or 20 nmol/kg) reduced inflammatory infiltration of pancreatic tissue and vacuolization of acinar cells. Also, plasma lipase activity and plasma IL-1beta concentration were reduced, and caerulein-induced fall in pancreatic DNA synthesis was reversed. Administration of ghrelin at the dose 10 and 20 nmol/kg was without effect on caerulein-induced pancreatic edema and pancreatitis-related fall in pancreatic blood flow.(1) Administration of ghrelin attenuates pancreatic damage in caerulein-induced pancreatitis (2) Protective effect of ghrelin administration seems Background: Ghrelin, a circulating growth hormone-releasing peptide isolated from human and rat stomach, stimulates growth hormone secretion, food intake and exhibits gastroprotective properties. Ghrelin is predominantly produced by a population of endocrine cells in the gastric mucosa, but its presence in bowel, pancreas, pituitary and hypothalamus has been reported. In human fetal pancreas, ghrelin is expressed in a prominent endocrine cell population. In adult pancreatic islets the population of these cell is reduced. The aim of present study was to investigate the influence of ghrelin administration on the development of acute pancreatitis. Methods: Acute pancreatitis was induced in rat by caerulein injection. Ghrelin was administrated twice (30 min prior to the first caerulein or saline injection and 3 h later) at the doses: 2, 10 or 20 nmol/kg. Immediately after cessation of caerulein or saline injections the following parameters were measured: pancreatic blood flow, plasma lipase activity, plasma interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and interleukin 10 (IL-10) concentration, pancreatic DNA synthesis, and morphological signs of pancreatitis. Results: Administration of ghrelin without induction of pancreatitis did not affect significantly any parameter tested. Caerulein led to the development of acute edematous pancreatitis. Treatment with ghrelin at the dose 2 nmol/kg, during induction of pancreatitis, was without effect on pancreatic histology or biochemical and functional parameters. Treatment with ghrelin at the dose 10 and 20 nmol/kg attenuated the development of pancreatitis and the effects of both doses were similar. Administration of ghrelin (10 or 20 nmol/kg) reduced inflammatory infiltration of pancreatic tissue and vacuolization of acinar cells. Also, plasma lipase activity and plasma IL-1beta conc