Determination of plasma glycoprotein 2 levels in patients with pancreatic disease. Blood tests possessing higher diagnostic accuracy are needed for all the major pancreatic diseases. Glycoprotein 2 (GP2) is a protein that is specifically expressed by the pancreatic acinar cell and that has previously shown promise as a diagnostic marker in animal models of acute pancreatitis.This study describes the development of an assay for GP2, followed by the determination of plasma GP2 levels in patients with acute pancreatitis, chronic pancreatitis, and pancreatic cancer.Rabbit polyclonal antisera and mouse monoclonal antibodies were generated against human GP2 and used to develop an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The assay was tested in patients with an admitting diagnosis of pancreatic disease at 2 tertiary care facilities. The diagnosis of acute or chronic pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer was determined using previously established criteria that incorporated symptoms, radiology, pathology, and serology. Plasma GP2 levels were determined in 31 patients with acute pancreatitis, 16 patients with chronic pancreatitis, 36 patients with pancreatic cancer, and 143 control subjects without pancreatic disease. Amylase and lipase levels were also determined in patients with acute pancreatitis.The GP2 assay's sensitivity values were 0.94 for acute pancreatitis, 0.81 for chronic pancreatitis, and 0.58 for pancreatic cancer, which were greater than the 0.71 for acute pancreatitis and 0.43 for chronic pancreatitis (P =.02) observed for amylase. The lipase assay sensitivity for acute pancreatitis was 0.66. The accuracy of the GP2 assay was greater than that of the amylase or lipase assays for acute pancreatitis (GP2 vs lipase, P =.004 GP2 vs amylase, P =.003) when analyzed using receiver operator characteristic curves. When daily serial blood samples were obtained for 13 patients with acute pancreatitis, GP2 levels remained abnormally elevated for at least 1 day longer than the amylase or lipase levels.The GP2 assay is a useful new marker for acute and chronic pancreatitis.