Effects of the celecoxib on the acute necrotizing pancreatitis in rats. The investigation of the effects of the celecoxib as a cylooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor on the course of the acute necrotising pancreatitis (ANP) in rats. ANP was induced in 72 rats by standardized intraductal glycodeoxycholic acid infusion and intravenous cerulein infusion. The rats were divided into four groups (six rats in each group): Sham + saline, sham + celecoxib, ANP + saline, ANP + celecoxib. Six hours later after the ANP induction, celecoxib (10 mg/kg) or saline was given i.p. In the 12th hour, routine cardiorespiratuar, renal parameters were monitored to assess the organ function. The serum amylase, alanine amino transferase (ALT), interleukin 6 (IL-6), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid, the serum concentration of the urea, the tissue activity of myeloperoxidase (MPO) and malondialdehyde (MDA) in pancreas and lungs were measured. The pancreas histology was examined. In the second part of the study, 48 rats were studied in four groups similar to the first part. Survival of all the rats after the induction of ANP was observed for 24 h. The induction of the pancreatitis increased the mortality from 0/12, in the sham groups to 4/12 (30%) in the acute pancreatitis with saline group, 5/12 (42%) in the acute pancreatitis with celecoxib group respectively, heart rate, the serum activities of amylase, ALT, the tissue activities of MPO, MDA in the pancreas and lung, and LDH in BAL fluid, the serum concentration of the urea and IL-6, the degree of the pancreatic damage and decreased the blood pressure, the urine production, pO(2) and the serum concentration of calcium. The use of celecoxib did not alter these changes except the serum IL-6 concentration, urine production and MPO, MDA activities in the tissue of the lungs and pancreas. Serum urea concentration and pancreatic damage in ANP + celecoxib group were insignificantly lesser than ANP + saline group. Whereas treatment with celecoxib improves lung and renal functions, the degree of pancreatic damage partially and the serum IL-6 level completely, it does not improve the cardiovascular and liver functions, the mortality rate and the calcium level. Celecoxib may be useful for the support of some organ functions during ANP in rats.