The calcium binding protein S100A9 is essential for pancreatic leukocyte infiltration and induces disruption of cell-cell contacts. Leukocyte infiltration is an early and critical event in the development of acute pancreatitis. However, the mechanism of leukocyte transmigration into the pancreas and the function of leukocytes in initiating acute pancreatitis are still poorly understood. Here, we studied the role of S100A9 (MRP14), a calcium binding protein specifically released by polymorph nuclear leukocytes (PMN), in the course of acute experimental pancreatitis. Acute pancreatitis was induced by repeated supramaximal caerulein injections in S100A9 deficient or S100A9 wild-type mice. We then determined S100A9 expression, trypsinogen activation peptide (TAP) levels, serum amylase and lipase activities, and tissue myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. Cell-cell contact dissociation was analyzed in vitro with biovolume measurements of isolated acini after incubation with purified S100A8/A9 heterodimers, and in vivo as measurement of Evans Blue extravasation after intravenous application of S100A8/A9. Pancreatitis induced increased levels of S100A9 in the pancreas. However, infiltration of leukocytes and MPO activity in the lungs and pancreas during acute pancreatitis was decreased in S100A9-deficient mice and associated with significantly lower serum amylase and lipase activities as well as reduced intrapancreatic TAP-levels. Incubation of isolated pancreatic acini with purified S100A8/A9-heterodimers resulted in a rapid dissociation of acinar cell-cell contacts which was highly calcium-dependent. Consistent with these findings, in vivo application of S100A8/A9 in mice was in itself sufficient to induce pancreatic cell-cell contract dissociation as indicated by Evans Blue extravasation. These data show that the degree of intrapancreatic trypsinogen activation is influenced by the extent of leukocyte infiltration into the pancreas which, in turn, depends on the presence of S100A9 that is secreted from PMN. S100A9 directly affects leukocyte tissue invasion and mediates cell contact dissociation via its calcium binding properties.