Clinical characteristics of children with acute pancreatitis. To analyze the characteristics of children with acute pancreatitis and provide the basis of early diagnosis and treatment.Totally 121 children with acute pancreatitis admitted to Hunan Children's Hospital between March 2003 and December 2009 were enrolled in this retrospective study. The data of clinical manifestations, biochemical examinations, imaging and prognosis were summarized and statistically analyzed.Of the 121 cases, preschool and school-age children were the main groups, and the prevalent months were May and June. Abdominal pain (88.4%) and vomiting (61.2%) were the major initial symptoms of pancreatitis in children, but none of children under the age 1 year complained of abdominal pain 70.2% had signs of abdominal tenderness, accompanied by abdominal rigidity, distension, hepatomegaly, jaundice, etc. Severe patients developed shock, convulsions, coma and so on. Serum amylase concentration increased to above the upper reference limit in 114 children (94.2%) when they admitted within 24 hours after admission. Urine amylase elevation was noted in 77 children (79.4%). The amylase concentration decreased after 3 days, but not all returned to normal 14 days afterward. Children with sustained serum amylase elevation or serum amylase level ≥ 3 times upper limit of normal range more likely to have fever, vomiting, abdominal distension, and pancreatic abnormalities at ultrasonography or CT which showed that the echo of pancreas decreased or enhanced, pancreas edema, pancreatic duct expanded, etc. Abdominal ultrasonography and CT showed that 75 cases (62.0%) had other organ damage besides pancreatitis, liver (25.3%) and intestinal (16.0%) damages were very common, while liver and myocardial damages were seen frequently in the laboratory examinations, which complicated with serum ALT/AST, total bilirubin, blood glucose elevation and myocardial enzyme abnormalities. Several gastroscopic examinations showed mucosal hyperemia and edema, sheet-like erosion, etc. Except for one case who underwent laparotomy, all the remaining children were treated with non-operative comprehensive treatment. Of them 119 were cured or improved, 2 died and 5 had recurred disease later.Gastrointestinal symptoms were the main clinical manifestations of acute pancreatitis in children, often complicated with extrapancreatic damage. The younger the patient was, the less complaint of abdominal pain they had. This indicates that acute pancreatitis should be considered when children suffered from acute abdominal pain and vomiting which had no known cause or could not be explained. It is important to do take serial monitoring of serum amylase, and imaging procedures.