Short-type single balloon enteroscope for endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography with altered gastrointestinal anatomy. To evaluate the effectiveness of a short-type single-balloon-enteroscope (SBE) for endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) in patients with a reconstructed intestine.Short-type SBE was developed to perform ERCP in postoperative patients with a reconstructed intestine. Short-type SBE is a direct-viewing endoscope with the following specifications: working length, 1520 mm total length, 1840 mmAmong the 31 sessions of ERCP, the rate of reaching the blind end was 88% in B-II gastrectomy, 91% in R-Y gastrectomy, and 100% in R-Y hepaticojejunostomy. The mean time required to reach the papilla was 18.3 min in B-II gastrectomy, 21.1 min in R-Y gastrectomy, and 32.5 min in R-Y hepaticojejunostomy. The diagnostic success rates in all patients and those with an intact papilla were respectively 86% and 86% in B-II gastrectomy, 90% and 87% in R-Y gastrectomy, and 100% in R-Y hepaticojejunostomy. The therapeutic success rates in all patients and those with an intact papilla were respectively 100% and 100% in B-II gastrectomy, 94% and 92% in R-Y gastrectomy, and 100% in R-Y hepaticojejunostomy. Because the channel diameter was 3.2 mm, stone extraction could be performed with a wire-guided basket in 12 sessions, and wire-guided intraductal ultrasonography could be performed in 8 sessions. As for complications, hyperamylasemia (defined as a rise in serum amylase levels to more than 3 times the upper limit of normal) occurred in 1 patient (7 sessions) with a B-II gastrectomy and 4 patients (19 sessions) with an R-Y gastrectomy. After ERCP in patients with an R-Y gastrectomy, 2 patients (19 sessions) had pancreatitis, 1 patient (21 sessions) had gastrointestinal perforation, and 1 patient (19 sessions) had papillary bleeding. Pancreatitis and bleeding were both mild. Gastrointestinal perforation improved after conservative treatment.Short-type SBE is effective for ERCP in patients with a reconstructed intestine and allows most conventional ERCP devices to be used.