Changes in gene expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha and interleukin 6 in a canine model of caerulein-induced pancreatitis. Acute pancreatitis is an inflammatory process that frequently involves peripancreatic tissues and remote organ systems. It has high morbidity and mortality rates in both human and veterinary patients. The severity of pancreatitis is generally determined by events that occur after acinar cell injury in the pancreas, resulting in elevated levels of various proinflammatory mediators, such as interleukin (IL) 1β and 6, as well as tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α). When these mediators are excessively released into the systemic circulation, severe pancreatitis occurs with systemic complications. This pathophysiological process is similar to that of sepsis thus, there are many striking clinical similarities between patients with septic shock and those with severe acute pancreatitis. We induced acute pancreatitis using caerulein in dogs and measured the change in the gene expression of proinflammatory cytokines. The levels of TNF-α and IL-6 mRNA peaked at 3 h, at twice the baseline levels, and the serum concentrations of amylase and lipase also increased. Histopathological examination revealed severe hyperemia of the pancreas and hyperemia in the duodenal villi and the hepatic sinusoid. Thus, pancreatitis can be considered an appropriate model to better understand the development of naturally occurring sepsis and to assist in the effective treatment and management of septic patients. La pancréatite aigüe est un processus inflammatoire qui implique fréquemment les tissus péri-pancréatiques et des systèmes organiques éloignés. Elle a des taux de morbidité et de mortalité élevés autant chez les humains que chez les animaux. La sévérité de la pancréatite est généralement déterminée par des évènements qui se produisent suite à des dommages aux cellules acinaires dans le pancréas, et qui induisent des niveaux élevés de différents médiateurs pro-inflammatoires, tels que l’interleukine (IL) 1β et 6, ainsi que le facteur nécrosant des tumeurs alpha (TNFα). Lorsque ces médiateurs sont libérés de manière excessive dans la circulation systémique, une pancréatite sévère se produit avec des complications systémiques. Ce processus pathophysiologique est similaire à celui d’un sepsis donc, il y a plusieurs similarités cliniques entre des patients avec un choc septique et ceux avec une pancréatite aigüe sévère. Nous avons induit une pancréatite aigüe en utilisant de la caeruléine chez des chiens et avons mesuré le changement dans l’expression des gènes des cytokines pro-inflammatoires. Les niveaux d’ARNm de TNFα et d’IL-6 ont culminé après 3 h, atteignant le double des niveaux de base, et les concentrations sériques d’amylase et de lipase augmentèrent également. Un examen histopathologique a révélé une hyperémie sévère du pancréas et une hyperémie dans les villosités duodénales et les sinusoïdes hépatiques. Ainsi, la pancréatite peut être considérée un modèle approprié pour mieux comprendre le développement d’un sepsis naturel et aider dans le traitement efficace et la gestion de patients septiques.(Traduit par Docteur Serge Messier).