Experimental immune pancreatitis in the mouse by rabbit immune sera directed against purified enzymes of the exocrine pancreas. An experimental xenogeneic immune pancreatitis was induced in AB-mice by repeated intraperitoneal injections of rabbit immune sera directed against purified pancreatic enzymes (alpha-amylase, lipase, trypsin) for 3 hours up to 8 days. Histologically, the immune pancreatitis is characterized by three different findings: 1. Multiple acinar cell necroses on the 2nd, 3rd and 5th day of immune serum application. 2. A dedifferentiating acinar cell atrophy with development of pseudocanalicular acini on the 5th and 9th day. 3. An increasing interstitial histiolymphoplasmocytic pancreatitis on the 5th and 9th experimental day. Ultrastructurally, the acinar cell necroses proved as the final stage of a step-by-step developing acute lethal cell damage. The dedifferentiating acinar cell atrophy corresponds to a chronic sublethal cell injury with alteration of different cytoplasmic components. The interstitial pancreatitis in immune serum treatment is characterized by differently activated histiocytes and lymphocytes as well as by mature plasma cells. Because of immune histological findings (peri- and intraacinar deposition of rabbit globulin, specific fixation of guinea-pig complement, and appearance of mouse globulin in the mouse exocrine pancreas) and control experiments with rabbit and mouse normal serum as well as with physiological saline, the pathogenesis of the induced xenogeneic immune pancreatitis is regarded as a twophase process: 1. The acinar cell necroses are mainly due to a cytotoxic immune reaction (possibly in combination with an immune complex reaction) caused by specific anti-pancreatic enzyme antibodies of the applied immune sera. The dedifferentiating acinar cell atrophy may be the result of a specific action of the anti-enzyme antibodies against the corresponding pancreatic enzymes in the apical secretion granules of the pancreatic acinar cells. 2. The interstitial histiolymphoplasmocytic pancreatitis is mainly the morphologic substrate of an extravascularly (intraperitoneally) induced serum sickness reaction (immune complex reaction) due to the foreign proteins applied with the xenogeneic immune sera.