The effect of sennosides on bacterial translocation and survival in a model of acute hemorrhagic pancreatitis. Bacterial translocation leading to subsequent infectious complications is a significant determinant of outcome in acute hemorrhagic pancreatitis (AHP). The colonic ileus and impaired intestinal barrier function that often accompany AHP may predispose to translocation. Sennoside is a naturally occurring cathartic and choleretic agent that stimulates intestinal mucous secretion and has potent promotility effects. The impact of sennoside-induced intestinal motility and secretory function on bacterial translocation and survival was studied in a rat model of AHP. Severe acute pancreatitis was induced in rats by the intraductal infusion of 2% sodium deoxycholate (DCA, 0.4 ml/kg). A group of sham-operated rats (group A) received intraductal saline, whereas experimental animals were subsequently administered distilled water (group B) or sennoside solution (group C) by gavage every 8 h. After 48 h, intestinal transit of fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled dextran, serum endotoxin, and amylase levels, and bacterial translocation to mesenteric lymph nodes (MLNs) and pancreatic tissue were determined. The pancreas and intestine were sampled for histologic study. All group A animals survived and did not develop pancreatitis or endotoxemia, whereas groups B and C all demonstrated severe hemorrhagic pancreatitis with evidence of necrosis. Mortality at 48 h was 55% in group B versus 12.5% in group C. Inhibition of intestinal motility was noted in 40% versus 20%, and endotoxin levels were 61.36+/-28.26 pg/L versus 5.41+/-3.58 pg/L in group B versus group C rats, respectively (p<0.001). Pancreatic tissue and MLN cultures were positive in 100% of group B survivors versus 14% of group C survivors (p<0.05). Histologic examination of the intestine in group C animals showed increased mucous secretion, proliferation of goblet cells, and evidence of rapid turnover/renewal of enterocytes. Treatment with the cathartic agent, sennoside, reduced translocation of endotoxin and bacteria, restored intestinal motility, increased mucous secretion, and reduced mortality in a model of acute hemorrhagic pancreatitis in the rat. Other cathartics may have similar properties and may be useful in preventing infectious complications in acute pancreatitis.