Neuropharmacological and genetic study of panic disorder. A study on the biology of 'panic disorder,' which I have classified under the category of 'anxiety disorder,' made progress recently. In a genetic study, the hereditary of panic disorder was checked by a 'linkage and twins' study, and the anticipation of panic disorder was recognized as being the same as that which is also found in the psychiatric conditions known as schizophrenia and manic depression. A panic disorder patient regards the anxious sign of a model as ruinous, and this weakness in recognition has been duly noted. Therefore, I studied a patient showing a continuance state of 'hyper-sensitivity,' and compared this to a patient showing a 'sleep disorder.' Noradrenaline plays an important role in anxiety as suppression of the locus ceruleus (LN), the major NE-containing nucleus of the noradrenaline nervous system, brings on a calming effect. Yohimbine, however, which is an alpha 2 antagonist, is found to induce panic attacks. The fact that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) suppresses panic attacks suggests that serotonin is connected with panic disorders. It is also thought that the 'raphe nucleus' is the site of origin of the serotonin nervous system, which participates in the control of anxiety. This suggests the participation of a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) nervous system in which the administration of benzodiazepine at a high potency would be an effective agent against panic disorder. Cholecystokinin (CCK) is also suggested to have a connection with panic disorder as CCK-4 causes panic attacks. There has been no CCK antagonist found effective for an object- or time-oriented panic disorder at the present. It is thought that corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is released during a panic attack. The development of a new CRF receptor antagonist is needed. In addition to the studies on the neurotransmitters of the traditional type, such as noradrenaline, serotonin and GABA, studies on the neuropeptides, such as CCK and CRF have become important for future consideration. Understanding this, image studies such as MRI, SPECT, fMRI and PET have become highly desirable.