Intracranial ganglioglioma: preoperative characteristics and oncologic outcome after surgery. In order to investigate the clinical characteristics, neuroimaging findings, pathological features, treatment, and outcomes, and to provide valuable guidance for the diagnosis and management of intracranial gangliogliomas, 34 cases of intracranial gangliogliomas were retrospectively analyzed. This study included 23 males and 11 females. Age at operation ranged from 17 days to 50 years. All patients had preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), 18F-FDG-PET (positron emission tomography), and 99Tc-HMPAO-SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) were also performed in some cases. All pathological specimens and all available neuroimages were re-evaluated. The follow-up period varied from 12 to 89 months (mean 36 months). Seizure was the most common presenting symptom (85%). Tumor calcification was detected by CT scan in six of 11 cases. Seventeen gangliogliomas (50%) showed cystic components and 18 tumors (53%) were enhanced on MRI. All temporal lobe gangliogliomas were located intracortically and most of them had poor demarcation on MRI. In comparison with the contralateral normal area, the gangliogliomas showed a reduced Cho/Cr and NAA/Cr ratio, and an increased Cho/NAA ratio. On 18F-FDG-PET, gangliogliomas were usually hypometabolic. HMPAO-SPECT indicated tumor hypoperfusion or isoperfusion. A gross total resection was achieved in 25 patients. Tumor progression was observed in three patients who underwent an incomplete tumor resection. Two of them underwent a malignant transformation to a glioblastoma. Twenty-seven patients could carry on their normal life activity with the Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS) of more than 80. Even though ganglioglioma is a slowly growing benign tumor, which could be demonstrated by magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), PET, and SPECT, there is a chance of malignant transformation, especially in cases of incomplete tumor resection. Gangliogliomas should be resected gross totally, if feasible, to achieve the best long-term outcomes.