Impact of functional genomics and proteomics on radionuclide imaging. The assessment of gene function following the completion of human genome sequencing may be performed using radionuclide imaging procedures. These procedures are needed for the evaluation of genetically manipulated animals or newly designed biomolecules, which requires a thorough understanding of physiology, biochemistry, and pharmacology. The experimental approaches will involve many new technologies, including in vivo imaging with single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography. Nuclear medicine procedures may be applied for the determination of gene function and regulation using established and new tracers, or using in vivo reporter genes, such as genes encoding enzymes, receptors, antigens, or transporters. Visualization of in vivo reporter gene expression can be performed using radiolabeled substrates, antibodies, or ligands. Combinations of specific promoters and in vivo reporter genes may deliver information about the regulation of the corresponding genes. Furthermore, protein-protein interactions and activation of signal transduction pathways may be visualized noninvasively. The role of radiolabeled antisense molecules for the analysis of messenger ribonucleic acid (RNA) content has to be investigated. However, possible applications are therapeutic intervention using triplex oligonucleotides with therapeutic isotopes, which can be brought near to specific deoxyribonucleic acid sequences to induce deoxyribonucleic acid strand breaks at selected loci. Imaging of labeled siRNA makes sense if these are used for therapeutic purposes to assess the delivery of these new drugs to their target tissue. Pharmacogenomics will identify new surrogate markers for therapy monitoring, which may represent potential new tracers for imaging. Drug distribution studies for new therapeutic biomolecules are needed at least during preclinical stages of drug development. New treatment modalities, such as gene therapy with suicide genes, will need procedures for therapy planning and monitoring. Finally, new biomolecules will be developed by bioengineering methods, which may be used for the isotope-based diagnosis and treatment of disease.