Inhibition of antiskin allograft immunity induced by infusions with photoinactivated effector T lymphocytes (PET cells). Is in vivo cell transferrable? We previously reported producing donor-specific tolerance to alloantigens by intravenous exposure to pretreated antidonor T cells. The current study extends that work by adoptively transferring the donor-specific tolerance into naive syngeneic recipients. Eight days after BALB/c mice received histoincompatible CBA/j skin grafts, their splenocytes which included an expanded population of cells mediating rejection were treated with 100 ng/ml 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) photoactivated by 1 Joule/cm2 of ultraviolet A (UVA) light prior to infusion into naive BALB/c recipients. Whereas 8-MOP itself is biologically inert, photoactivated 8-MOP crosslinks DNA by covalently binding to pyrimidine bases. Recipient BALB/c mice which had been previously demonstrated to be hyporesponsive to CBA/j alloantigens in mixed leukocyte culture (MLC), cytotoxicity (CTL) and in vivo delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) assays were the donors of spleen cells for the adoptive transfer experiments. Fifty to one hundred million viable spleen cells from these pretreated BALB/c mice were transferred into naive syngeneic recipients which then were tested for DTH response and allograft survival to the relevant and irrelevant antigens. The radiosensitivity of this transferrable suppression was evaluated by exposing the adoptively transferred cell population to 3200 rads of C-irradiation prior to cell transfer. The phenotype of the cells transferring this suppressive response was performed by depleting specific populations of cells with monoclonal antibodies prior to cell transfer. In vivo the DTH response of the pretreated BALB/c mice was specifically suppressed to the relevant alloantigen, correlating with retention of CBA/j skin grafts for up to 42 days post engraftment without visual evidence of rejection, in comparison to control mice complete rejection of the skin graft in less than 8 days. In vitro, splenocytes from BALB/c recipients of pretreated syngeneic splenocytes containing large numbers of BALB/c anti-CBA/j T cells proliferated less in MLC and generated lower cytotoxic T cell responses to CBA/j alloantigens than did controls and suppressed the naive and sensitized BALB/c MLC and CTL responses to CBA/j alloantigen. This specific suppressive response to alloantigen was optimally transferred into syngeneic naive recipients when the adoptive transfer was performed on the sixth day after the last infusion received by the spleen cell donor mice. The adoptive transfer of this suppressive response was abrogated by the prior X-irradiation of the donor spleen cells and significantly abolished by the depletion of Thy-1+, Lyt-2+, L3T4- T lymphocytes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)