Improvements in radiotherapy practice: the impact of new imaging technologies. Improvements in imaging technology are impacting on every stage of the radiotherapy treatment process. Fundamental to this is the move towards computed tomography (CT) simulation as the basis of all radiotherapy planning. Whilst for many treatments, the definition of three-dimensional (3D) tumour volumes is necessary, for geometrically simple treatments virtual simulation may be more speedily performed by utilising the reconstruction of data in multiple imaging planes. These multi-planar reconstructions may be used to define both the treatment volumes (e.g. for palliative lung treatments) and the organs at risk to be avoided (e.g. for para-aortic strip irradiation). For complex treatments such as conformal radiotherapy (CFRT) and intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) where 3D volumes are defined, improvements in imaging technologies have specific roles to play in defining the gross tumour volume (GTV) and the planning target volume (PTV). Image registration technologies allow the incorporation of functional imaging, such as positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging, into the definition of the GTV to result in a biological target volume. Crucial to the successful irradiation of these volumes is the definition of appropriate PTV margins. Again improvements in imaging are revolutionising this process by reducing the necessary margin (active breathing control, treatment gating) and by incorporating patient motion into the planning process (slow CT scans, CT/fluoroscopy units). CFRT and IMRT are leading to far closer conformance of the treated volume to the defined tumour volume. To ensure that this is reliably achieved on a daily basis, new imaging technologies are being incorporated into the verification process. Portal imaging has been transformed by the introduction of electronic portal imaging devices and a move is underway from two-dimensional (2D) to 3D treatment verification (cone beam CT, optical video systems). A parallel development is underway from off-line analysis of portal images to the incorporation of imaging at the time of treatment using image-guided radiotherapy. By impacting on the whole process of radiotherapy (tumour definition, simulation, treatment verification), these new imaging technologies offer improvements in radiotherapy delivery with the potential for greater cure rates and a minimum level of treatment side effects.