Cerebral functions and metabolism after antegrade selective cerebral perfusion in aortic arch surgery. Antegrade selective cerebral perfusion (ASCP) represents the best method of cerebral protection during surgery of the thoracic aorta. However, brain integrity and metabolism after antegrade cerebral perfusion have not yet been investigated. We assessed cerebral positron emission tomography (PET), diffusion-weighted imaging, proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy and cognitive functions in patients undergoing either ASCP or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) to elucidate whether cerebral perfusion was associated with postoperative neuronal alterations, metabolic deficit or cognitive decline.Seventeen patients undergoing aortic arch surgery using ASCP with moderate hypothermia (26 degrees C) (ASCP group) and 15 patients undergoing elective on-pump CABG (CABG group) were prospectively enrolled in the study. Brain PET, diffusion-weighted imaging, proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy and neuropsychometric testing were performed preoperatively, and at 1 week and 6 months postoperatively (T1, T2 and T3, respectively). Patient data were compared for statistic analysis with a normal database made up of healthy subjects.One patient in each group was excluded because they refused postoperative evaluation. There were neither strokes nor hospital deaths. Two patients suffered from temporary neurological dysfunction (one in each group). Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy did not reveal significant alterations in cortical N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA) content within and between the groups at T2 and T3. In the ASCP group, brain diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance showed a significant increase of the apparent diffusion coefficient values, reflecting vasogenic cerebral oedema, at T2, that disappeared at T3. Magnetic resonance detected new focal brain lesions in two CABG group patients. In seven ASCP group patients, PET scan showed glucose hypometabolism in the occipital lobes at T2, which disappeared in five patients at successive examination (T3). Significant cognitive decline was not observed in any patient. Test score changes between and within groups were not significant.There was no evidence of ischaemic brain injury after ASCP even if some degree of reversible brain oedema secondary to cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was present. The cognitive outcomes in patients undergoing ASCP were comparable to patients undergoing coronary artery bypass. The lack of left subclavian artery perfusion during cerebral perfusion leads to temporary glucose hypometabolism in the occipital lobes without neuronal injury.