In vivo assembly of yeast mitochondrial alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex. The assembly of alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDC) has been studied in wild-type Saccharomyces cerevisiae and in respiratory-deficient strains (pet) with mutations in KGD1 and KGD2, the structural genes for alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (KE1) and dihydrolipoyl transsuccinylase (KE2) components, respectively. Mutants unable to express KE1 or KE2 form partial complexes similar to those reported in earlier studies on the resolution and reconstitution of bacterial and mammalian KGDC. Thus mutants lacking KE1 assemble a high-molecular-weight subcomplex consisting of a KE2 core particle with bound dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenase (E3). Similarly, mitochondrial extracts of mutants lacking KE2 contain dimeric KE1 and E3. These components, however, are not associated with each other. The partial complexes detected in the mutants are capable of reconstituting normal KGDC when supplied with the missing subunit. Complete restoration of overall alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase activity is achieved by mixing appropriate ratios of mitochondrial extracts from mutants deficient in KE1 and KE2. The reconstitution of enzymatic activity correlates with binding of KE1 to the KE2-E3 particle to form a complex with the same sedimentation properties as wild-type KGDC. Overexpression of KE2 relative to KE1 results in a preponderance of incompletely assembled complexes with substoichiometric contents of KE1. Formation of a complex with a full complement of KE1 therefore depends on a balanced output of KE1 and KE2 from their respective genes. Biochemical screens of a pet mutant collection have led to the identification of a new gene required for the expression of enzymatically active KGDC. Mitochondria of the mutant have all of the catalytic subunits of KGDC. Sedimentation analysis of these components indicates that while the mutant has a stable KE2-E3 subcomplex, the interaction of KE1 with KE2 core is much weaker in the mutant than in the wild type. The gene product responsible for this phenotype, therefore, appears to function at a late stage of assembly of KGDC, most likely by posttranslational modification of one of the subunits.