Relationships between high oxygen extraction fraction in the acute stage and final infarction in reversible middle cerebral artery occlusion: an investigation in anesthetized baboons with positron emission tomography. Studies in humans suggest that regions that show maximal increases in brain oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) in the hours following an ischemic episode are those most vulnerable for infarction and are often, although not always, associated with the final site of infarction. To clarify this issue, we followed the hemodynamic and metabolic characteristics of regions with an initially maximally increased OEF and compared them with the ultimately infarcted region in an experimental stroke model. Positron emission tomography (PET) was used to obtain functional images of the brain prior to and following reversible unilateral middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in 11 anesthetized baboons. To model early reperfusion, the clips were removed 6 h after occlusion. Successive measurements of regional CBF (rCBF), regional CMRO2 (rCMRO2), regional cerebral blood volume, and regional OEF (rOEF) were performed during the acute (up to 2 days) and chronic (> 15 days) stage. Late magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans (co-registered with PET) were obtained to identify infarction. Reversible MCAO produced an MRI-measurable infarction in 6 of 11 baboons the others had no evidence of ischemic damage. Histological analysis confirmed the results of the MRI investigation but failed to show any evidence of cortical ischemic damage. The lesion was restricted to the head of the caudate nucleus, internal capsule, and putamen. The infarct volume obtained was 0.58 +/- 0.31 cm3. The infarcts were situated in the deep MCA territory, while the area of initially maximally increased OEF was within the cortical mantle. The mean absolute rCBF value in the infarct region of interest (ROI) was not significantly lower than in the highest-OEF ROI until 1-2 days post-MCAO. Cerebral metabolism in the deep MCA territory was always significantly lower than that of the cortical mantle