Transmyocardial laser revascularization in stable and unstable angina pectoris. Endstage coronary artery disease still remains a therapeutic challenge. An increasing number of patients is no longer amenable for direct revascularization by PTCA or coronary bypass surgery and does also no longer respond to maximum medical therapy. This fact has directed the interest again towards surgical techniques of indirect revascularization, which had been introduced by Beck and other surgeons more than 60 years ago. Among these attempts we can also find transmyocardial needle punctures, firstly performed by Sen in Bombay. In the early eighties it was Mirhoseini, who used a laser for creating these transmural channels, primarily in combination with coronary bypass surgery at the arrested heart and later on together with Crew as a sole therapy at the beating heart. The idea behind this transmyocardial laser revascularization (TMLR) was a "reptilization" of the human heart, which meant a direct blood supply from the ventricle into the ischemic myocardium. Whereas this theory has not proven to be true, as the surface area of these channels is not sufficient for the nutrition of the surrounding myocardial tissue by diffusion or convection, different models have been developed by anatomical, experimental and clinical studies, such as the connection between the laser channels and intramyocardial vessels or capillaries, analogous to ventriculo-coronary connections in human anatomy or pathology as for example those connections described in children with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum or the Thebesian veins. Moreover the laser trauma may also simply contribute to the induction of neoangiogenesis. While the function of TMLR is still not clearly defined, clinical studies in the United States and also in other countries have proven the clinical efficacy in a cohort of severely diseased patients undergoing this procedure. Accordingly more than 2/3 of all patients after TMLR showed a significant improvement of more than 2 angina classes (CCS) as well as a decrease in medication and hospitalization. Moreover there was also a reduction of ischemic areas demonstrated by szintigraphy and, in one study from Houston, also by positron emission tomography. While the overall mortality in all those studies is still considerably high, a reduction could be achieved by a stricter selection of patients excluding especially those with a severely impaired left ventricular function. As demonstrated by preliminary data from the last phase III FDA-study, TMLR may even reduce long-term mortality compared to maximum medical therapy in a randomized group of patients. Our own experiences in 134 patients also confirmed a significant reduction of angina after TMLR alone (n = 67) or in combination with bypass surgery (n = 67) with the majority of patients being in angina class 1 and 2 (CCS) 6 months after surgery. All of these patients were in angina class 3 and 4 before surgery. Nuclear scans could demonstrate an improved perfusion in more than 40%. Further studies as well as other clinical and also experimental investigations have still to be awaited, before the definitive role of TMLR within the armamentarium against coronary artery disease can be determined. However, it is already a therapeutic option for those highly symptomatic patients, who cannot be offered a different treatment modality.