PET imaging of monoamine oxidase B in peripheral organs in humans. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) regulates neurotransmitter concentration in the brain and is also an important detoxifying enzyme in peripheral organs. It occurs in 2 subtypes, MAO A and MAO B. Their relative ratios in different organs are variable, depending on the particular organ and species, making it difficult to extrapolate measures from animals to humans. The purpose of this study was to investigate the feasibility of imaging MAO B in peripheral organs in humans with PET.Nine healthy subjects (7 males, 2 females mean age +/- SD, 37 +/- 7 y) received 2 dynamic PET studies of the torso area 2 h apart with 11C-L-deprenyl and deuterium-substituted 11C-L-deprenyl (11C-L-deprenyl-D2). Time-activity curves for heart, lungs, liver, kidneys, and spleen and arterial plasma input were measured for each study. The uptake at plateau and the incorporation quotient (IQ = uptake/plasma input) as well as model terms K1 (which is a function of blood flow) and k3 and lambdak3 (which are kinetic terms proportional to MAO B) were compared to identify organs that showed reduced values with deuterium substitution (deuterium isotope effect) characteristic of MAO B. In addition, a sensitivity analysis compared the 2 tracers with respect to their ability to quantify MAO B.Heart, lungs, kidneys, and spleen showed a robust deuterium isotope effect on uptake, IQ, k3, and lambdak3. The arterial plasma input function was significantly larger for 11C-L-deprenyl-D2 than for 11C-L-deprenyl. Liver time-activity curves were not affected by deuterium substitution and model terms could not be estimated. In organs showing an isotope effect, lambdak3 showed the rank order: kidneys >or= heart > lungs = spleen. A sensitivity analysis showed that 11C-L-deprenyl-D2 is a better index of MAO activity than 11C-L-deprenyl.This study demonstrates that (a) the deuterium isotope effect is useful in assessing the binding specificity of labeled deprenyl to peripheral MAO B (b) MAO B can be visualized and quantified in the heart, lungs, kidneys, and spleen but not in the liver