Prospective feasibility trial of radiotherapy target definition for head and neck cancer using 3-dimensional PET and CT imaging. The aim of this investigation was to evaluate the influence and accuracy of (18)F-FDG PET in target volume definition as a complementary modality to CT for patients with head and neck cancer (HNC) using dedicated PET and CT scanners.Six HNC patients were custom fitted with head and neck and upper body immobilization devices, and conventional radiotherapy CT simulation was performed together with (18)F-FDG PET imaging. Gross target volume (GTV) and pathologic nodal volumes were first defined in the conventional manner based on CT. A segmentation and surface-rendering registration technique was then used to coregister the (18)F-FDG PET and CT planning image datasets. (18)F-FDG PET GTVs were determined and displayed simultaneously with the CT contours. CT GTVs were then modified based on the PET data to form final PET/CT treatment volumes. Five-field intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) was then used to demonstrate dose targeting to the CT GTV or the PET/CT GTV.One patient was PET-negative after induction chemotherapy. The CT GTV was modified in all remaining patients based on (18)F-FDG PET data. The resulting PET/CT GTV was larger than the original CT volume by an average of 15%. In 5 cases, (18)F-FDG PET identified active lymph nodes that corresponded to lymph nodes contoured on CT. The pathologically enlarged CT lymph nodes were modified to create final lymph node volumes in 3 of 5 cases. In 1 of 6 patients, (18)F-FDG-avid lymph nodes were not identified as pathologic on CT. In 2 of 6 patients, registration of the independently acquired PET and CT data using segmentation and surface rendering resulted in a suboptimal alignment and, therefore, had to be repeated. Radiotherapy planning using IMRT demonstrated the capability of this technique to target anatomic or anatomic/physiologic target volumes. In this manner, metabolically active sites can be intensified to greater daily doses.Inclusion of (18)F-FDG PET data resulted in modified target volumes in radiotherapy planning for HNC. PET and CT data acquired on separate, dedicated scanners may be coregistered for therapy planning however, dual-acquisition PET/CT systems may be considered to reduce the need for reregistrations. It is possible to use IMRT to target dose to metabolically active sites based on coregistered PET/CT data.