Molecular imaging (PET) of brain tumors. Despite the recognized limitations of (18)Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in brain tumor imaging due to the high background of normal gray matter, this imaging modality provides critical information for the management of patients with cerebral neoplasms with regard to the following aspects: (1) providing a global picture of the tumor and thus guiding the appropriate site for stereotactic biopsy, and thereby enhancing its accuracy and reducing the number of biopsy samples and (2) prediction of biologic behavior and aggressiveness of the tumor, thereby aiding in prognosis. Another area, which has been investigated extensively, includes differentiating recurrent tumor from treatment-related changes (eg, radiation necrosis and postsurgical changes). Furthermore, FDG-PET has demonstrated its usefulness in differentiating lymphoma from toxoplasmosis in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome with great accuracy, and is used as the investigation of choice in this setting. Image coregistration with magnetic resonance imaging and delayed FDG-PET imaging are 2 maneuvers that substantially improve the accuracy of interpretation, and hence should be routinely employed in clinical settings. In recent years an increasing number of brain tumor PET studies has used other tracers (like labeled methionine, tyrosine, thymidine, choline, fluoromisonidazole, EF5, and so forth), of which positron-labeled amino acid analogues, nucleotide analogues, and the hypoxia imaging tracers are of special interest. The major advantage of these radiotracers over FDG is the markedly lower background activity in normal brain tissue, which allows detection of small lesions and low-grade tumors. The promise of the amino acid PET tracers has been emphasized due to their higher sensitivity in imaging recurrent tumors (particularly the low-grade ones) and better accuracy for differentiating between recurrent tumors and treatment-related changes compared with FDG. The newer PET tracers have also shown great potential to image important aspects of tumor biology and thereby demonstrate ability to forecast prognosis. The value of hypoxia imaging tracers (such as fluoromisonidazole or more recently EF5) is substantial in radiotherapy planning and predicting treatment response. In addition, they may play an important role in the future in directing and monitoring targeted hypoxic therapy for tumors with hypoxia. Development of optimal image segmentation strategy with novel PET tracers and multimodality imaging is an approach that deserves mention in the era of intensity modulated radiotherapy, and which is likely to have important clinical and research applications in radiotherapy planning in patients with brain tumor.