Silent myocardial ischemia in prediabetics in relation to insulin resistance. Myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) is a powerful diagnostic and prognostic tool for evaluating coronary artery disease (CAD). Several studies have shown Type 2 diabetics are at increased risk for having CAD. In addition, insulin resistance is generally considered to be of major importance in the pathophysiology of Type 2 diabetes mellitus. However, the area of screening prediabetics for CAD remains unclear. Given that glucose intolerance and insulin resistance precede the development of overt diabetes, these factors would be associated with CAD.This study was designed to evaluate the state of myocardial perfusion in prediabetic adults detected by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in relation to insulin resistance.A descriptive study was performed. Out of 113 consecutive prediabetic adults, 32 had insulin resistance (Group A) and 81 had insulin sensitivity (Group B). All were subjected to full medical history and clinical examination including blood pressure, waist circumference, and body mass index. Biochemical studies including lipids profile, fasting blood glucose, and homeostasis model assessments (HOMA) test. Exercise treadmill technetium (99mTC) sestamibi SPECT scintigraphy were done for assessment of myocardial perfusion assessed by summed difference score as well as occurrence of transient left ventricular dilatation.Significant increase in summed difference score as well as transient left ventricular dilatation was observed in Group A than Group B. It is correlated with insulin resistance, and the correlation appears to be independent of glucose tolerance status and obesity. Similar correlations were observed with age, triglycerides, and waist circumference.Prediabetics have myocardial perfusion defects which represent a pattern of cardiovascular risk. These are predominantly observed in prediabetics with increased HOMA IR and visceral obesity independent of glucose levels.