Comparative localization of myocardial ischemia by exercise electrocardiography and myocardial perfusion SPECT. Prior angiographic study has shown that the patterns of ST-segment depression during exercise do not provide localizing information of the responsible coronary lesion. However, little is known regarding the ability of exercise-induced ST-segment displacement to localize myocardial perfusion defects.We studied 552 consecutive patients without prior myocardial infarction who had reversible perfusion defect in one vascular territory on rest 201Tl/exercise 99mTc-labeled sestamibi dual-isotope myocardial perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and ischemic ST depression or elevation during exercise. Of these, 192 patients had angiographically documented coronary artery disease (CAD). Two hundred thirty-two patients had maximal ST depression in anterior leads, 247 patients had maximal ST depression in inferior leads, and 45 patients had similar maximal ST depression in both anterior and inferior leads. Twenty-eight (5%) patients had ST elevation with absent Q waves. In patients with maximal ST depression in anterior leads, perfusion defects were found in the territory of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) in 30%, in the territory of the right coronary artery (RCA) in 52%, and in the territory of the left circumflex coronary artery (LCX) in 18%. In patients with maximal ST depression in inferior leads, perfusion defects were found in RCA territory in 44%, in the LAD territory in 42%, and in the LCX territory in 14%. Compared with exercise ST depression, the less common finding of ST elevation did provide accurate localization of perfusion defects. When ST elevation was greatest in the anterior leads, 96% of patients had LAD territory defects. When ST elevation was most prominent in the inferior leads, 100% patients had RCA territory defects. Data of coronary angiograms demonstrated that myocardial perfusion SPECT correctly identified the most stenotic coronary disease for LAD (94%), LCX (72%), and RCA (75%).The findings of this study indicate that the site of maximal ST-segment depression does not identify the localization of myocardial perfusion defects. However, the less common finding of exercise-induced ST-segment elevation does predict localization of myocardial ischemia.