Exercise supplementation to dipyridamole prevents hypotension, improves electrocardiogram sensitivity, and increases heart-to-liver activity ratio on Tc-99m sestamibi imaging. Myocardial perfusion imaging with dipyridamole is an alternative with which to evaluate patients who are unable to exercise. Many patients who undergo dipyridamole testing are limited in their ability, but are not completely unable, to exercise. There are benefits from adding low workload exercise to dipyridamole testing, including a reduction of thallium 201 concentration in the liver, leading to a higher heart-to-liver activity ratio and better image quality. This prospective study was designed to evaluate a protocol of exercise supplementation during dipyridamole technetium 99m sestamibi imaging and to verify whether a higher heart-to-liver activity ratio could be obtained. We also evaluated the potential of this combined protocol to prevent hypotension and induce ischemic changes on the electrocardiogram (ECG).Ninety consecutive patients who were not completely disabled for exercise underwent dipyridamole Tc-99m sestamibi cardiac single photon emission computed tomography with a protocol of exercise supplementation (DipEx). The heart-to-liver activity ratio, hemodynamics, and electrocardiographic changes were studied. The findings were compared with those of a control group (Dip) composed of 99 patients who underwent dipyridamole infusion alone. Patients with left bundle branch block, pacemaker, and atrial fibrillation were excluded. The DipEx patients tolerated the protocol, exercising 4.2 +/- 1.3 minutes on the treadmill (Bruce protocol). Compared with Dip, patients in the DipEx group had a higher heart-to-liver activity ratio (1.3 +/- 0.4 vs 1.6 +/- 0.5, respectively P =.00001), had no incidence of hypotension (6% vs 0%, respectivelyOur data show that the addition of limited exercise to dipyridamole results in benefits during Tc-99m sestamibi imaging, increasing heart-to-liver activity ratio, preventing vasodilator-induced hypotension, and improving ECG sensitivity for the detection of ischemia. Furthermore, this protocol also provides an estimation of the patient's physical capacity and could be used as an alternative for patients undergoing dipyridamole infusion who are not completely unable to exercise.