Evaluation of extracranial-intracranial arterial bypass function by using near-infrared spectroscopy. It has been reported that extracranial-intracranial (EC-IC) arterial bypass surgery can be useful in preventing stroke in patients with hemodynamic compromise. Little is yet known, however, regarding the extent to which the bypass contributes to maintaining adequate cerebral blood oxygenation (CBO) and its temporal changes following surgery. The authors evaluated bypass function repeatedly by using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) after surgery.The authors investigated 30 patients who had undergone EC-IC bypass surgery. Single-photon emission computerized tomography revealed a decrease in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and a lowered rCBF response to acetazolamide. Changes in CBO were evaluated in the sensorimotor cortex during compression of the anastomosed superficial temporal artery (STA). When decreases in oxyhemoglobin (HbO2) and total hemoglobin (Hb) concentrations were observed, the bypass was considered to have maintained CBO in the sensorimotor cortex given that decreases in HbO2 and total Hb indicate cerebral ischemic changes. The bypass maintained CBO immediately after surgery in 36.7% of patients (Group I, 11 patients) and at some time after surgery, mostly within 1 year, in 43.3% of patients (Group II, 13 patients) however, it did not maintain it throughout the follow-up period in 20% of patients (Group III, six patients). Note that the preoperative rCBF in patients in Groups I and II was lower than that in patients in Group III (p < 0.004). In fact, the preoperative rCBF predicted whether a bypass would maintain CBO at a cutoff value of 24.5 to 25 ml/100 g/min. Among Groups I and II, 18 patients demonstrated an increase in deoxyhemoglobin during STA compression. The preoperative rCBF in these cases was lower than that in the six remaining patients (p < 0.006). Note that the preoperative rCBF predicted the postoperative deoxyhemoglobin response at a cutoff value of 22.2 to 24 ml/100 g/min.The EC-IC bypass surgery can maintain CBO immediately after surgery or gradually within 1 year when the preoperative rCBF is below 24.5 to 25 ml/100 g/min. Furthermore, bypass flow plays a critical role in maintaining an adequate CBO when preoperative rCBF is below 22.2 to 24 ml/100 g/min.