Potential role of FDG PET in the setting of diabetic neuro-osteoarthropathy: can it differentiate uncomplicated Charcot's neuroarthropathy from osteomyelitis and soft-tissue infection? This paper is based on the results from an ongoing prospective trial designed to investigate the usefulness of FDG PET in the complicated diabetic foot.To investigate the potential utility of FDG PET imaging in the setting of acute neuropathic osteoarthropathy (Charcot's foot).A total of 63 patients, in four groups, were evaluated. The groups were: (A) 17 patients with a clinical diagnosis of Charcot's neuroarthropathy (11 men, six women mean age: 59.4+/-8.6 years)We observed a low degree of diffuse FDG uptake in the Charcot's joints. This was clearly distinguishable from the normal joints. The SUVmax in the Charcot's lesions varied from 0.7 to 2.4 (mean, 1.3+/-0.4) while those of midfoot of the normal control subjects and the uncomplicated diabetic foot ranged from 0.2 to 0.7 (mean 0.42+/-0.12) and from 0.2 to 0.8 (mean 0.5+/-0.16), respectively. The only patient with Charcot's foot with superimposed osteomyelitis had an SUVmax of 6.5. The SUVmax of the sites of osteomyelitis as a complication of diabetic foot was 2.9-6.2 (mean: 4.38+/-1.39). Unifactorial analysis of variance test yielded a statistical significance in the SUVmax between the four groups (P<0.01). The SUVmax between the normal control groups and the uncomplicated diabetic foot was not statistically significant by the Student's t-test (P>0.05). In the setting of concomitant foot ulcer FDG PET accurately ruled out osteomyelitis. Overall sensitivity and accuracy of FDG PET in the diagnosis of Charcot's foot was 100 and 93.8%, respectively and for MRI were 76.9 and 75%, respectively. FDG PET showed foci of abnormally enhanced uptake in the soft tissue which was suggestive of inflammation in seven cases (43.75%) which were proven pathologically to be secondary to infection. In only two of these cases the features of soft tissue infection were noted on the magnetic resonance images.The results support a valuable role of FDG PET in the setting of Charcot's neuroarthropathy by reliably differentiating it from osteomyelitis both in general and when foot ulcer is present.