Effects of rapid mannitol infusion on cerebral blood volume. A positron emission tomographic study in dogs and man. Positron emission tomography was used to study the effect of a rapid infusion of mannitol on cerebral blood volume (CBV) in five dogs and in three human subjects. The ability of mannitol to reduce intracranial pressure (ICP) has always been attributed to its osmotic dehydrating effect. The effects of mannitol infusion include increased osmolality, total blood volume, central venous pressure (CVP), and cerebral blood flow, and decreased hematocrit, hemoglobin concentration, serum sodium level, and viscosity. Mannitol's ability to dilate the cerebral vasculature, either directly or indirectly, and thus to transiently increase ICP, is a subject of controversy. By in vivo labeling of red cells with carbon-11, the authors were able to demonstrate an early increase in CBV in dogs of 20%, 27%, and 23% (mean increase, p less than 0.05) at 1, 2, and 3 minutes, respectively, after an infusion of 20% mannitol (2 gm/kg over a 3-minute period). The animals' muscle blood volume increased by 27% (mean increase, p less than 0.05) 2 minutes after infusion. In the human subjects, lower doses and a longer duration of infusion (1 gm/kg over 4 minutes) resulted in an increase in CBV of 8%, 14% (p less than 0.05), and 10% at 1, 2, and 3 minutes, respectively, after infusion. In dogs, ICP increased by 4 mm Hg (mean increase, p less than 0.05) 1 minute after the infusion, before decreasing sharply. The ICP was not measured in the human subjects. Hematocrit, hemoglobin, sodium, potassium, osmolality, heart rate, mean arterial pressure (MAP), and CVP were measured serially. Results of these measurements, as well as the significant decrease in MAP that occurred after mannitol infusion, are discussed. This study demonstrated that rapid mannitol infusion increases CBV and ICP. The increase in muscle blood volume, in the presence of a decreased MAP and an adequate CVP, suggests that mannitol may have caused vasodilation in these experiments.