Isonitrile (sestamibi) as a valid alternative to thallium 201 for myocardial perfusion studies. SestaMIBI is a new technetium labeled radiopharmaceutical agent approved for myocardial perfusion studies. In the present work the authors analyzed the accuracy of this agent on the study of ischemic heart disease. CONCEPTION: The present paper was made considering the results of four previous studies around defined goals performed by the same research group.Cardiology and Nuclear Medicine departments in a general hospital.Planar studies: global sensitivity for the diagnosis of ischemic heart disease was 100% and specificity of 67%. Tomocintigraphic studies and segmentary analysis of IHD: the accuracy for stenosis involving the left anterior descending artery was of 80%, 91% for the right coronary artery and 67.2% for left circumflex artery. Planar studies versus tomocintigraphy--SPECT (comparative study in the same population): global sensitivity of 86% for planar method and 97% for "SPECT". In patients with single vessel disease the results are also better with "SPECT" (75% vs 94%). In this series the presence of rest perfusion defects is frequent. In 75% was possible to correlate them with a significant lesion over the related coronary artery. The positive predictive value of this finding is of 92% for the lesions on the left coronary artery, 100% for left cincumflex and 59% for the right coronary artery.1. The SestaMIBI is an excellent radiopharmaceutical agent for myocardial perfusion studies. 2. The accuracy of this agent for diagnosis of ischemic heart disease is quite good with a high sensitivity and specificity values. This conclusion is also valid for those patients with single vessel disease. 3. Scintigraphic studies performed with planar acquisition provide good quality images. Nevertheless tomoscintigraphy (SPECT) is more accurate namely in patients with single vessel disease. 4. In the present state of the art and regarding our results we can conclude that is too early for considering SestaMIBI like and agent for viability studies.