Technetium-99m-DMSA renal cortical scintigraphy to detect experimental acute pyelonephritis in piglets: comparison of planar (pinhole) and SPECT imaging. The purpose of this study was to directly compare the sensitivity and specificity of SPECT and pinhole imaging for the detection of acute pyelonephritis using histology as the standard of reference.Bilateral vesicoureteral reflux of infected urine was induced in 16 piglets (32 kidneys) by unroofing the intravesical ureter and subsequently instilling a broth culture of E. coli into the bladder. DMSA scans were obtained by both pinhole and SPECT techniques at 24 hr (4 piglets), 48 hr (5 piglets), 72 hr (4 piglets) and 10 days (3 piglets) after instillation of bacteria into the bladder. Kidneys were harvested immediately after scintigraphy for histopathologic examination. Results of the SPECT images, pinhole images and histologic findings were interpreted independently in a blinded fashion. The images of each kidney were classified as positive or negative for pyelonephritis regardless of the severity and number of lesions. To evaluate accuracy of SPECT and pinhole imaging for the detection of individual lesions, each kidney was arbitrarily divided into three zones (upper, middle and lower). Image findings were then compared with the pathology results for the presence or absence of pyelonephritis in each zone.Histopathology revealed pyelonephritis in 24 of 32 kidneys (58 of 96 zones). The sensitivity of the DMSA scan for detection of affected kidneys was 92% for SPECT and 83% for pinhole overall accuracy was 88% for both. The sensitivity of SPECT for the detection of affected renal zones was slightly better than pinhole imaging (91% compared with 86%), but its specificity was lower (82% compared with 95%) resulting in a similar accuracy. Excluding four piglets where scans were obtained within 24 hr after instillation of bacteria into the bladder, the sensitivity of SPECT and pinhole for the detection of affected kidneys were 95% and 90%, respectively. Their overall accuracy were 96% and 92%. In this subgroup, the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of SPECT for the detection of involved zones were 96%, 95% and 96%, respectively. The corresponding values for pinhole imaging were 90%, 95% and 92%, respectively.Although the sensitivity of SPECT for the detection of acute pyelonephritis is slightly better than pinhole DMSA scan, the overall accuracy of these two imaging techniques is essentially the same.