Iodine-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine cardiac imaging to identify and localize vasospastic angina without significant coronary artery narrowing. We assessed the ability of iodine-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) imaging to identify and localize coronary spasm and determined the most useful method of MIBG analysis in vasospastic angina without significant coronary narrowing.Various noninvasive methods have been used to detect vasospastic angina, but they are not very sensitive in patients with sporadic attacks. MIBG imaging has recently been proposed as a useful tool for detecting vasospastic angina.Normal limits of both visual and quantitative analysis of two-dimensional polar maps (bull's-eyes) for MIBG imaging were at first established in 59 normal subjects. For optimal criteria of visual analysis, we established regional differences in abnormal MIBG defect scores. An abnormal region of the bull's-eye was defined as an area > 2 SD below normal. An abnormal regional washout rate was defined as < 0%. Using these criteria, we prospectively evaluated 104 patients with suspected vasospastic angina. Visual, bull's-eye and regional washout rate analyses were compared for overall detection of the disease and for individual vessel involvement.Overall sensitivity by these methods was 30%, 42% and 76%, respectively. Washout rate analysis showed a significantly higher sensitivity than the other two methods. Specificity was 78%, 72% and 87%, respectively. The sensitivity of detecting spasm-induced coronary artery with washout rate analysis was 82% for the left anterior descending (LAD), 76% for the right (RCA) and 69% for the circumflex (Cx) coronary arteries. The sensitivity of visual analysis was 29%, 15% and 35%, respectively that for bull's-eye analysis was 34%, 54% and 41%, respectively. Washout rate analysis showed a significantly higher sensitivity for LAD spasm than for the other two methods and a higher sensitivity for RCA and Cx spasms than for visual analysis.Regional washout rate analysis of MIBG imaging is a highly accurate technique for determining the presence and location of coronary artery spasm.