Study of cavernosal arterial anatomy using color and power Doppler sonography: impact on hemodynamic parameter measurement. We report on color and power Doppler ultrasound to study cavernosal arterial anatomy, and evaluate the impact of vascular anatomy on the measurement of hemodynamic parameters.Cavernosal arterial anatomy of 42 patients with erectile dysfunction was evaluated using color and power Doppler ultrasound. A computerized waveform analysis was used to measure peak systolic velocity, end diastolic velocity and resistive indexes at various sites, including the penile crura, and proximal mid and distal penile shaft. Hemodynamic parameters were measured in each artery in cases of bifurcated or multiple cavernosal arteries.A total of 80 corpora were adequately evaluated. We observed a single artery without major proximal branches in 37 corpora, a single artery with major proximal branches in 17, bifurcated arteries in 15, 2 cavernosal arteries in 4 and marked arterial tortuosity in 1. In 6 corpora the main cavernosal artery arose from the superficial dorsal artery. The peak systolic velocity was highest at the proximal and decreased progressively at the distal site. The peak systolic velocity plus or minus standard deviation at the mid shaft averaged 69.3+/-30.0% of that at the proximal penile shaft. Of the 15 corpora with bifurcated arteries 67% had a 40% or greater difference in peak systolic velocity between the branches. Complete or partial occlusion of the cavernosal artery was identified in 3 corpora, and a dramatic difference in peak systolic velocity proximal and distal to the stenotic area was demonstrated.Cavernosal arterial anatomy is variable and hemodynamic parameters differ at various sites of measurement. Parameters should be measured at a consistent proximal site to obtain a reliable assessment. Variations in vascular anatomy and cavernosal artery pathology should be considered when interpreting color Doppler sonography and before penile vascular surgery.