Homografts in patients with combined disease of the aortic valve and the ascending aorta: an alternative to the classical Bentall procedure. In patients with aneurysms or dissections of the ascending aorta and additional aortic valve disease, valve-containing composite grafts are used in clinical routine. The study aim was to present our experience with homografts for aortic valve replacement extended by a vascular prosthesis as an alternative to the classical Bentall procedure.Thirty consecutive patients (mean age 46+/-14 years) were included in this study. Indications for valve replacement were aortic stenosis (n = 15), aortic insufficiency (n = 6), combined aortic valve disease (n = 6), endocarditis of the native valve (n = 1), and endocarditis of a previously placed bioprosthesis (n = 2). The mean diameter of the ascending aorta was 5.6+/-0.5 cm one patient had an acute dissection (diameter 4.4 cm). For valve replacement, cryopreserved homografts (mean size 24+/-2 mm) were used in a mini-root technique, and the ascending aorta was replaced by collagen-coated vascular prostheses (mean diameter 28+/-3 mm). The size of the vascular prosthesis was adjusted to the diameter of the sinutubular junction of the implanted homograft. Follow up included annual clinical examinations, transthoracic echocardiography and ultrafast computed tomography (CT) scans.All patients survived surgery, and no deaths occurred during follow up. None of the patients had postoperative anticoagulation, and no thromboembolic events were noted. Follow up was complete, with an average 48 months (range: 6 to 84 months). Doppler echocardiography revealed trivial to mild aortic regurgitation in nine patients postoperatively, with no deterioration during follow up. No pathologic pressure gradients over the aortic valves were measured at Doppler echocardiography the mean valvular orifice area was 2.5+/-0.3 cm2. At ultrafast CT, normal homograft anatomy including the sinotubular junction, no calcifications, and no signs of annular dilatation were seen. In the patient who had surgery for acute endocarditis of the native valve, ultrafast CT revealed a small pseudoaneurysm below the left coronary artery, without need for reoperation.Short- and mid-term results show that cryopreserved homografts extended by small-sized vascular prostheses can be used safely for Bentall procedures in selected cases where the diameter of the aortic valve annulus is moderately dilated.