Internal iliac artery revascularization as an adjunct to endovascular repair of aortoiliac aneurysms. Endovascular repair of aortoiliac aneurysms may be limited by extension of the aneurysm to the iliac bifurcation, necessitating endpoint implantation in the external iliac artery. In such cases the circulation to the internal iliac artery is interrupted. Bilateral internal iliac artery occlusion during endovascular repair may be associated with significant morbidity, including gluteal claudication, erectile dysfunction, and ischemia of the sigmoid colon and perineum. We have employed internal iliac artery revascularization (IIR) to allow endograft implantation in the external iliac artery while preserving flow to the internal iliac artery in patients with aneurysms involving the iliac bifurcation bilaterally.A total of 11 IIR procedures were performed in 10 patients undergoing endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair (9 men, 1 woman mean age, 74 years). IIR was accomplished via a retroinguinal incision in 9 cases and a retroperitoneal incision in 2 cases. Six-mm polyester grafts were used for external-to-internal iliac artery bypass in 10 cases and internal iliac artery transposition onto the external iliac artery was used in one case. Endovascular AAA repair was performed using a modular bifurcated device (Talent-LPS, Medtronics, Minneapolis, Minn) after IIR. Bypass graft patency was determined immediately after the surgery, at 1 month, and every 3 months thereafter, using duplex ultrasound scanning and computed-tomography angiography. Mean aneurysm diameters were as follows: AAA, 6.4 +/- 0.7 cmSuccessful IIR and endovascular AAA repair were accomplished in all cases. No proximal, distal, or graft junction endoleaks occurred. Two patients demonstrated retrograde aneurysm side-branch endoleaks originating from the lumbar arteries. One thrombosed spontaneously within 3 months. One perioperative myocardial infarction occurred. Reduction in aneurysm size was documented in 5 aortic, 5 ipsilateral iliac, and 3 contralateral iliac aneurysms. Gluteal claudication, erectile dysfunction, colon and perineal ischemia, and mortality did not occur. All IIRs have remained patent during a follow-up period of 4 to 15 months (mean, 10.1 months).IIR may be used with good short-term to intermediate-term patency to prevent pelvic ischemia in patients whose aneurysm anatomy requires extension of the endograft into the external iliac artery. This may allow endovascular AAA repair to be performed in patients who might otherwise be at risk for developing complications associated with bilateral internal iliac artery occlusion.