The relation of coronary artery disease with Doppler flow velocity and resistance index in cases without significant carotid artery stenosis. Atherosclerosis causes functional vasomotor changes as well as well as atheromatous carotid plaques and luminal stenosis resulting in mechanical effect. The relation between functional vasomotor changes in carotid arteries and extent of coronary artery disease is unknown. In our study, the probable relationship between carotid arterial flow velocities and resistance indexes (RI) with the extent of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients who do not have significant carotid luminal stenosis was evaluated.One hundred and fourteen patients (74 males, mean age 53+/-10 years, range 33-72 years) were studied. All patients underwent color Doppler sonography before coronary angiography. Peak systolic flow velocity, end-diastolic flow velocity and resistance index (RI) of right and left common carotid and internal carotid and internal carotid arteries were measured by color Doppler sonographic technique. Doppler parameters were correlated with the extent of CAD and left ventricular ejection fraction.Patients were classified on the basis of presence of significant CAD and the number of affected coronary arteries. Thirty-three patients did not have (normal group) and 81 patients had significant coronary arterial stenosis (22 patients with one-vessel disease, 27, with two-vessel disease and 32 patients with three-vessel disease). Flow velocities were the highest in normal group but the lowest in CAD patients, especially when 3 coronary arteries were affected. Correlation analysis demonstrated negative relationship of age, ejection fraction and number of affected coronary arteries with end-diastolic flow velocity, but positive and significant correlation with RI value.Our study is the first on this object. The results suggest that presence and extent of CAD changes flow velocities and RI values of common and internal carotid arteries. However, further investigations are required before these parameters can be applied as diagnostic criteria.