Imaging of aortic stent-grafts and endoleaks. Although the technical success of stent-graft implantation is established and relatively safe, data on the long-term safety and efficacy of endovascular repair are just emerging. Because several late complications of aortic stent-graft placement have been observed, life-long follow-up remains essential. Imaging methods form an integral part of every stage of endovascular aortic aneurysm repair. The current imaging strategy should include initial plain films, CT angiography, and color-coded Duplex sonography. Plain films are an excellent means to detect migration, angulation, kinking, and structural changes of the stent mesh, including material fatigue, at follow-up. Helical CT angiography is considered a potentially revolutionary method for the noninvasive complete postprocedural assessment of aortic sten-grafting. Current data justify the use of biphasic C angiography as the postprocedural imaging technique of choice in most patients [118]. Ultrasound offers the advantages of low cost and lack of radiation exposure. High-quality ultrasound reliably excludes endoleaks in patients after stent-grafting of AAAs. There is a substantial variability, however, in measuring the diameter of aneurysm sacs thus, confirmation using an alternative study is prudent in cases that demonstrate a significant change in size during follow-up. MR angiography serves as an attractive alternative to CT angiography in patients with impaired renal function or known allergic reaction to iodinated contrast media. With current techniques, the visualization of aortic stent-grafts (with the exception of stainless-steel-based devices) is sufficient with MR angiography. There is evidence that MR imaging is superior to CT angiography in detecting small type 2 endoleaks or for excluding retrograde perfusion in patients with suspected endotension. The role of diagnostic catheter angiography is limited to assessment of vascular pathways in equivocal cases or for suspected endotension. Currently, a consensus view about postprocedural management after aortic stent-graft implantation is lacking. The authors propose performing a baseline CT angiography at discharge and a biphasic CT angiography and Duplex ultrasound scan at three months. In patients with no evidence of an endoleak, CT angiography, plain film and Duplex sonography (abdomen) should be repeated every year after endovascular repair. If an endoleak is present at follow-up, immediate appropriate treatment should be initiated.