Endoluminal stent graft repair for acute and chronic type B aortic dissection and atherosclerotic aneurysm of the thoracic aorta: an interdisciplinary task. Endoluminal thoracic aortic stenting is a new therapeutic tool in reducing the operative trauma of the patient. However, the inherent risks of aortic stent grafting are perivascular leakage, stent dislocation, blunt rupture of the aorta, side branch occlusion and neurological sequelae. To reduce these risks, in our institution all stent implantations were performed in close collaboration with our fellow cardiologists under biplane X-ray control supported by simultaneous intravascular and transoesophageal ultrasound imaging.Between August 1999 and August 2001, endovascular stent graft repair was performed in 34 patients (27 male, seven female) with a mean age of 68.6+/-7 years (range 58-84). Indication for treatment was an acute Type B aortic dissection in six patients (18%), a symptomatic chronic Type B dissection in 12 patients (35%), a true aneurysm of the descending aorta in seven patients (21%) and an atherosclerotic contained rupture of the descending aorta in nine (26%) patients. Out of six acute type B dissections three patients (8.8%) and one patient (2.9%) out of the chronic dissection group were in severe haemorrhagic shock, ventilated and required high-dose adrenergic support. The others (30 patients, 88.3%) remained symptomatic despite maximum medical treatment. In a special case a combined surgical and endoluminal stent graft repair was performed. Individually manufactured Talent, Medtronic AVE (33), and Gore (1) stents were used. Follow-up examination was performed 1 week after implantation and repeated every 3 months (mean follow-up 8 months, range 1-24).In all patients the aneurysm or the entry of the dissection could be excluded. The observed hospital mortality was 2.9% (one patient). No perivascular leakage, no stent dislocation, no neurological deficit or perfusion impairment was observed. All patients except four were extubated immediately after the procedure and discharged from hospital on postoperative day 2-3. The late procedure-related mortality was 5.8% (two patients) resulting in an overall mortality of 8.8% (three patients).Stent graft repair is a safe and feasible treatment option for selected patients, especially in emergency situations, if the aortic lesions can be clearly identified and localized. The use of biplane X-ray control combined with simultaneous intravascular and transoesophageal ultrasound imaging in an interdisciplinary approach enables a more precise targeting of the stent landing zone, resulting in low morbidity and mortality rates.