Hyperhomocysteinemia and advancement of atherosclerosis in patients with chronic renal failure on maintenance hemodialysis. Cardiovascular diseases connected with atherosclerosis are the main factor of morbidity and mortality in patients with end-stage renal failure. Hyperhomocysteinemia is a known and independent risk factor of atherosclerosis, occurring in 85-95% patients treated with hemodialysis. The aim of this study was to analyse relation between plasma level of homocysteine and chosen indicators of atherosclerosis development and also examined retrospectively cardiovascular complications in these patients. The study was carried out in 100 patients on hemodialysis who were divided into two groups: 72 patients with mild (20.74 mumol/l +/- 3.75) and 28 patients with moderate hyperhomocysteinemia (38.81 mumol/l +/- 9.81). Ultrasonographic examinations of Carotid Communis Artery Intima-Media Thickness (IMT), Ankle-Arm Blood Pressure Index (AABPI), echocardiographic parameters and biochemical examinations such as: PTH, folic acid and Vitamin B12, total protein, albumin, fibrinogen, glucose, total, LDL and HDL cholesterol, transferring, apolipoprotein B, lipoprotein (a), sodium potassium, calcium, phosphate, magnesium, iron, ferritin, urea, creatinine, uric acid and value of Hb, Ht, total iron binding capacity and transferring saturation, were performed. Patients with hypertension were divided into groups according to the number of taken anti-hypertensive drugs. Hyperhomocysteinemia was confirmed in 96% of patients. Frequency and type of acute cardiovascular complications were not related with the level of hyperhomocysteinemia. Statistically significant difference between IMT and level of hyperhomocysteinemia was observed. In patients with mild hyperhomocysteinemia IMT was 0.68 mm +/- 0.24 whereas in patients with moderate hyperhomocysteinemia 0.80 mm +/- 0.25, p < 0.036). Positive correlation between level of homocysteine and IMT (r = 0.22, p < 0.03) was noted. Based on this study, we concluded, that measurement of intima-media thickness is a good indicator of atherosclerosis development and correlates with hyperhomocysteinemia in patients on maintenance hemodialysis. It clearly confirms the role of hyperhomocysteinemia as significant risk factor of atherosclerosis in those patients.