Color-flow duplex ultrasound scan versus computed tomographic scan in the surveillance of endovascular aneurysm repair. The purpose of this study is to compare both computed tomographic scan (CT) and color flow duplex ultrasound scanning (CDU) as surveillance modalities for clinically significant endoleaks and to evaluate concordance in abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) diameter measurements in patients after endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) in a busy hospital vascular laboratory.We conducted a retrospective review of all patients who underwent endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms between February 1996 and November 2002 and had same-day CT and CDU studies. Ninety-seven patients enrolled in phase II clinical studies of Ancure devices had long-term follow-up with both modalities. The other patients underwent simultaneous studies, usually only at the 1-month postoperative visit. Peripheral vascular studies were performed by two certified vascular technicians all CT scans were reviewed by one vascular surgeon. CT was used as the standard against which the sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value, and positive predictive value of CDU in endoleak detection was determined. Statistics were performed by using the paired t testFour hundred ninety-five same-day CT and CDU examinations were reviewed in 281 patients. Patients had an average follow-up of 34.6 months (range, 1 to 72 months). Thirty-five leaks were identified among the patients studied (12.4% overall). In comparison with CT, diagnosis of endoleak with ultrasound scanning was associated with a sensitivity of 42.9%, specificity of 96.0%, positive predictive value of 53.9%, and negative predictive value of 93.9%. The correlation between the two modalities was modest (kappa statistic 0.427). The minor axis transverse diameter as measured by ultrasound and CT scans (4.81 +/- 1.1 cm on CT and 4.55 +/- 1.1 cm on ultrasound) correlated closely (r =.93, P <.001.) Seventy percent of paired studies differed by < or =5 mm. Changes in aneurysm size throughout follow-up were -.29 +/-.71 cm on CT scan -.34 +/-.57 cm on duplex ultrasound scan. The correlation coefficient was.65 (P <.001). There was no significant difference in the change as measured by either modality on the paired t test.Although CDU demonstrates a high degree of correlation with CT scan in determining aneurysm size change over time, it has a low sensitivity and positive predictive value in endoleak detection. In the hospital vascular laboratory at a large tertiary care center, CDU cannot effectively replace CT scan in surveillance after EVAR.