Endovascular treatment of anastomotic false aneurysms of the abdominal aorta. Conventional surgical treatment of anastomotic false abdominal aortic aneurysms (AFAA) is technically difficult. Morbidity-mortality rates are higher than those for surgery of infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). Endovascular management without laparotomy or aortic clamping represents an attractive alternative. The purpose of this study was to determine the immediate and middle-term outcome of endovascular management of AFAA. Between 1998 and 2001, 10 patients were treated for AFAA by placement of an endograft. The initial procedure was aortobifemoral bypass for occlusive artery disease in eight cases and resection and grafting for AAA in two cases. Mean age was 70 years. Seven patients were classified ASA 3 or 4. Three patients presented cardiac insufficiency with left ventricular ejection fraction <40%. Eight patients were treated using an aortounilateral iliac artery endograft in association with crossover femorofemoral bypass (3 AneuRx, 2 Endologix, 1 Talent, 1 Zenith, 1 surgeon-made stent). Two patients were treated with an aortoaortic endograft (1 Talent, 1 surgeon-made stent). In two patients extraperitoneal exposure of the common iliac artery was required for introduction of the stent in one case and for surgical closure of the iliac artery in the other case. A total of nine patients underwent another surgical procedure in association with stenting. Four endografts were custom-made. Endograft deployment was successful in all cases. No patient died during the postoperative period. Postoperative computed tomography (CT) scan confirmed exclusion of the aneurysmal sac in all cases. The mean duration of hospitalization was 13 days (range, 5-28 days). During follow-up (mean duration, 17.7 months range, 5-42 months), one patient died from heart-related causes. No direct or indirect endoleak was detected by CT scan follow-up and a significant reduction in AFAA diameter was noted in the eight patients with follow-up periods lasting 6 months or more. One patient developed occlusion of an aortounilateral iliac artery endograft and was treated by axillobifemoral bypass. In one patient stenosis of the distal end of an aortounilateral iliac endograft was discovered by duplex scan and successfully treated by dilatation. Endovascular treatment of AFAA is technically feasible but requires more complex procedures involving associated surgical procedures and use of custom-made endografts. The morbidity-mortality rate in this small series of high-risk patients was low. Immediate and middleterm exclusion of AFAA was good.