Evaluation of biplane color Doppler transesophageal echocardiography in 200 consecutive patients. We developed the first biplane transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) probe with two orthogonal transducers, allowing synchronous side-by-side displays of the heart on a monitor TV, and compared its diagnostic value with that of conventional single-plane TEE using commercially available Doppler equipment in 200 consecutive patients intraoperatively, perioperatively, or on an outpatient basis.Insertion was easy, except in one patient with a mediastinal tumor, and no complications were encountered. Both transverse and longitudinal scans allowed correct identification of true and false lumina in all 30 aortic dissection examinations, but longitudinal scanning was slightly superior in detecting types I and III entry sites. Three entries that were not detected by transverse scanning (two of DeBakey type I and one of type III) were visualized by longitudinal scanning. Among 37 cases of mitral regurgitation (MR), longitudinal scans were significantly superior (p less than 0.05) in revealing multiple jets (nine compared with two with transverse scanning). Although both planes yielded almost identical mean values for the maximum jet areas, a difference of over 50% in jet area size on the two planes was observed in 19 cases. The measured jet areas showed significant correlation with the angiographic MR grading, especially for the larger of the biplane measurements (p less than 0.01), and different grades showed little overlap. Longitudinal images increased the acoustic window of the heart and aorta from the esophagus. Moreover, longitudinal scanning provided good visualization of both ventricular outflow tracts, the ascending aorta, main pulmonary artery, and superior vena cava.This modality greatly facilitates a three-dimensional comprehension of cardiovascular lesions and flow dynamics, especially in aortic dissection and MR, and its safety was demonstrated. Our data demonstrate the usefulness of this new technique in comparison with conventional single-plane TEE.