Evaluation of the hemodynamic performance of St. Jude mitral prostheses: a pilot study by dobutamine-stress Doppler echocardiography. In contrast to the widespread use of dobutamine stress Doppler echocardiography in the hemodynamic evaluation of the prosthetic valves in aortic position, it has been rarely, if ever, used for assessment of these valves in mitral position. Therefore, this pilot study was done to assess the hemodynamic performance of St. Jude prosthetic mitral valves (functional orifice area 25-31) with dobutamine-stress Doppler echocardiography. Twenty consecutive patients (13 women and 7 men, aged 23 to 42 years) who had undergone mitral valve replacement 6 to 4745 days previously and 16 healthy volunteers (5 women and 11 men, aged 18 to 42 years) underwent dobutamine-stress Doppler echocardiography. Dobutamine infusion was started at a rate of 5 microg/kg per minute and was increased by 5 microg increments at 3-minute intervals. Maximum and mean gradients as well as pressure halftime were measured at rest and at the end of each stage. The correlation between Doppler-derived variables versus the heart rate was assessed and a regression equation was obtained for each of them. A significant increase in blood pressure, heart rate, maximum and mean gradients was noted during dobutamine infusion in both groups. There was a significant positive linear correlation between the increasing transprosthetic mitral valvular maximum and mean gradients and the increments in the heart rate (G(max) = 4.47 + 0.093 [HR], r= 0.474, p<0.05) and (G(mean) = 3.0+0.003 [HR], r=0.2697, p<0.05), respectively, indicating the heart rate dependency of these parameters. Pressure halftime, on the other hand, had an inverse but linear relationship with the heart rate (PHT = 142 - 0.55 [HR], r= -0.577, p<0.05). Similar findings were found for the control group as well. Standard dobutamine-stress echocardiography can safely be performed in patients with St. Jude mitral valve prostheses. Single Doppler measurements of the pressure gradients and pressure halftime may yield erroneous conclusions regarding the function and size of these valves unless corrected for the patients simultaneous, online heart rate. The use of the regression equations obtained in this pilot study may help to partly overcome some of these difficult issues.