Analysis of factors associated with extremity ulceration in diabetic subjects with peripheral neuropathy. Peripheral neuropathy is the main risk factor for foot ulceration in diabetic subjects. This study examined the association of peripheral arterial disease (PAD) with foot ulceration in a sample of diabetic subjects with peripheral neuropathy, and also if inflammatory markers would be associated with this event. We evaluated 32 type 2 diabetic individuals with abnormal 10-g monofilament exam, who were stratified in 2 groups according to history or presence of lower extremities ulcer. The group "with ulcer" (n = 18) included the ones that had active or cicatrized ulcer, or some lower-extremity amputation due to ulcer complications. In addition to the neurological examination and monofilament test, they were submitted to biothesiometry, lower extremity vascular assessment with Doppler, and laboratory determinations. No difference between the groups was found concerning sex distribution, mean age, and duration of diabetes diagnosis. The group with ulcer showed higher mean values of height (1.70 +/- 0.06 vs. 1.63 +/- 0.11 m, p = 0.044), vibration perception threshold measured in medial malleolli (40.9 +/- 13.0 vs. 30.6 +/-12.3 V, p = 0.040) than the group without ulcer. The groups did not differ regarding the mean values of the inflammatory markers. Response to patellae reflex was worse in the group with ulcer (p = 0.047), in which a higher proportion of individuals with abnormal toe-brachial index (p = 0.030) was observed as compared to those without ulcer. We concluded that PAD is associated with the presence of ulcer in neuropathic subjects. The assessment of digital arteries flow in lower limbs (in great toe) contributed to detect such association. Association of diabetic foot ulcers and inflammatory markers was not observed, but cannot be excluded due to limitations of sample size. Prospective studies should examine the sensitivity of the toe-brachial index to identify PAD in diabetic individual at risk of ulceration.