Brain and spinal cord protection during simultaneous aortic arch and thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair. We assessed the surgical and neurological outcome of patients undergoing simultaneous repair of aortic arch and descending thoracic aortic aneurysms (DTAA) or thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms (TAAA) via left thoracotomy or thoracolaparotomy.During a 6-year period, we performed 32 procedures in 23 male and 9 female patients with DTAA or TAAA with concomitant aortic arch aneurysms. The mean age of the patients was 50.9 years (range, 18-75 years). Twenty-two patients suffered from DTAA, 4 had type-I TAAA, and 6 had type-II TAAA. The entire aortic arch was involved in 12 patients and the distal hemi-arch in 20 patients. The mean diameter of the aneurysms was 6 cm (range, 4.9-7.6 cm). All patients were operated on according to the protocol with cerebrospinal fluid drainage, distal aortic and selective organ perfusion, as well as antegrade brain perfusion. Neuromonitoring was performed by means of motor evoked potentials (MEPs), transcranial Doppler (TCD), and electroencephalography (EEG).All patients survived the surgical procedure and 30-day mortality did not occur. At the end of the procedure, all patients had adequate MEPs, TCD, and EEG. One patient died 47 days after operation due to gastrointestinal bleeding and therapy-resistant coagulopathy. Major postoperative complications like paraplegia or paraparesis, renal failure, and myocardial infarction were not encountered. One patient had a stroke but neurological deficits were irrelevant. Mean preoperative creatinine level was 125 mmol/L, which peaked to a mean maximal level of 130 and returned to 92 mmol/L at discharge. Other complications included bleeding requiring surgical intervention (n = 4), arrhythmia (n = 1), pneumonia (n = 5), and respiratory distress syndrome (n = 2). At a median follow-up of 38 months, all but 1 patient was alive and free of re-intervention.Single-stage repair of aortic arch and concomitant thoracic and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms via left-sided thoracotomy or thoraco-laparotomy yields excellent short- and midterm outcomes. Monitoring of cerebral and spinal cord function contributes to improved neurologic outcome.