Surgical thrombectomy in horses with aortoiliac thrombosis: 17 cases. Aortoiliac thrombosis (AIT) is a progressive vascular disease characterised by an exercise-induced hindlimb lameness. After developing a surgical technique, a follow-up study was required.To assess the surgical results of a surgical thrombectomy in horses with AIT, a chronic arterial occlusive disease of the aorta and its caudal arteries.Seventeen cases showed the typical signs of AIT and diagnosis was confirmed by Doppler-ultrasonography. Average age of the horses was 12 years. Seven stallions, 6 mares and 4 geldings were included.The thrombus was located in the left hindlimb (5 cases), the right hindlimb (9 cases) or in both hindlimbs (3 cases). Two cases were operated on both limbs with a few days between surgeries. Nine (53%) horses regained their athletic performance and 2 horses were able to work for at least 30 min without complaint, instead of the initial 5 min prior to surgery. During surgery one horse had to be subjected to euthanasia because the thrombus was too tightly attached to the arterial wall and could not be removed. Two horses were subjected to euthanasia post operatively due to severe myopathy and one due to a femoral fracture during recovery. Two reocclusions of the treated artery occurred 4 months after surgical intervention: one horse was reoperated and, due to the extent of the thrombus and quality of the arterial wall, the horse was subjected to euthanasia the other horse was subjected to euthanasia without a second surgery. A severe complication was the appearance of AIT in the contralateral limb after surgery as result of occlusion caused by an embolus loosened by the procedure. Post anaesthetic myopathy was seen in 4 (24%) of the cases and could be so severe that euthanasia had to be considered.Surgical intervention by means of a thrombectomy in horses with AIT should be considered 65% of the horses regained athletic activity and 53% of the operated horses in this study performed at their previous level. Adequate padding, correct positioning, prevention of intraoperative hypotension and keeping surgery time as short as possible, are important parameters to prevent post operative myopathy.