Remote results of open interventions in treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms. Analysed herein are the results of treating a total of 471 patients operated on at the Department of Surgical Treatment for Arterial Pathology of the Research Centre of Cardiovascular Surgery named after A. N. Bakulev under the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences for an aneurysm of the infrarenal portion of the abdominal aorta. Complicated forms of AAA were observed in 71 (15.1%) patients. Of these, 13 patients were admitted presenting with a clinical picture of aortic rupture, 56 patients with aortic wall tear (according to ultrasound and/or MSCH findings), and two patients had break of the inferior vena cava. The most frequently encountered accompanying diseases were as follows: CAD noted in 367 (78.2%) patients. Valvular heart defects were revealed in 68 (14.4%) patients. Atherosclerotic alterations of the ascending aorta were diagnosed in 97 (20.6%) patients, and an ascending aortic aneurysm in 14 (2.8%) patients. Operations on the heart were performed in 45 (19.1%) patients. Mitral valve plasty was carried out in 7 patients, and 11 patients had a history of prior interventions on the aortic root and ascending aorta (Bentall-De Bono operation in 3 patients, Carbol operation in 3 patients). 32 patients underwent reconstructive operations on coronary arteries. Transmyocardial laser revascularization of the myocardium was carried out in 4 patients. Endovascular interventions were performed in 32 (6.8%) patients (stenting or transluminal balloon angioplasty of coronary arteries). All patients underwent AAA resection with prosthetic repair. The mentioned operations were combined with the following simultaneous interventions: aortocoronary bypass grafting performed in 31 cases, carotid endarterectomy in 27 cases, and plasty of renal arteries was carried out in 48 patients. Complications in the immediate postoperative period were observed in 79 (16.8%) patients. Hospital mortality amounted to 11 (2.3%) patients. The cumulative survival rate after 1, 5 and 10 years after surgery amounted to 93%, 81% and 44%, respectively, in a complicated course amounting to 91%, 79% and 16%, respectively. The obtained findings of the study demonstrated that the results of the AAA resection should be regarded as fairly good. The main factors influencing the quality of life and surgical outcomes in abdominal aortic aneurysms are as follows: CAD, arterial hypertension, and chronic cerebrovascular diseases. In patients without accompanying diseases, the criteria of quality of life after surgery approximate to those in a healthy population.