Evaluation of new pericardial bioprostheses by pulsed and continuous Doppler ultrasound . The authors have studied by pulsed and continuous Doppler ultrasonography 108 pericardial prostheses in a good functional state implanted for less than five years to patients without any clinical and echographic signs of heart failure. The pulsed Doppler ultrasonography allowed to exclude the possible dysfunction of the prostheses continuous Doppler ultrasonography allowed the measurement of the maximal transprosthetic velocities and to deduce the corresponding maximal and middle gradients by means of simplified Bernouilli's equation. Using three types of bioprostheses (Carpentier-Edwards, Ionescu and Mitroflow) the following problems were investigated: Normal ranges of maximal transprosthetic velocity and gradients. At the aortic level the maximal velocity ranges from 1.60 to 2.83 +/- 14 m/s and the maximal gradients from 10 for size 27-29 to 32 +/- 3.3 mmHg for size 19. At the mitral level the maximal velocity ranges from 0.80 to 2 m/s and the mean gradients from 1 for size 33 to 7 mmHg for size 25. The mean half-life of decrease is 100 +/- 28 ms. Thus all aortic bioprostheses appear to be stenosing, which is not the case for the mitral ones, size 31 and 33. Factors governing the maximal transprosthetic velocity and the gradients: these determining factors are the size, the type and the age of the bioprosthesis (r = 0.59 for the correlation between maximal velocity and size, r = 0.53 between size and mean aortic gradient). The accessory factors are the age and the functional condition of the myocardium. All these factors have to be considered and neutralized for allowing a valid comparison of various types of prostheses. Comparison of the three pericardial prostheses studied: in patients without signs of myocardial dysfunction of prosthetic origin and with comparable basal conditions, comparison of maximal velocity and of the gradient points to a significant superiority of the Mitroflow at the aortic level and of the Ionescu and Mitroflow at the mitral level. It should be noted in the end that the great similarity of the results obtained in the present study by Doppler ultrasonography with the previously reported hemodynamic data confirms the important role of the Doppler method in the evaluation of valvular bioprostheses.