The course of the prevertebral segment of the vertebral artery: anatomy and clinical significance. The so called "pretransverse or prevertebral segment" of the vertebral artery is defined from its origin at the subclavian artery to its entry into the respective transverse foramen. In surgery, angiography, and in all noninvasive procedures it is of great importance to know the exact details of the course and the origin of this segment of the vessel as well as in which percentages real abnormalities can be found.The VI segment of the vertebral artery was investigated both in anatomic preparations and clinical studies. A total of 402 vertebral arteries were evaluated (70 anatomic preparations in different forms, 181 patients, 95 angiographies of the aortic arch, and 86 color coded doppler sonographies).A contorted course was found in 157 (39%) cases. The plane of tortuosities demonstrated by the respective vessels was found to be horizontal in 40 (44.9%) cases, sagittal in 30 (33.7%) cases, and frontal in 19 (21.4%) cases. In 51 (32.5%) cases the contorted pathway was on the right side, and in 106 (68%) cases, on the left. A hypoplasia was found in 16 (10%) cases--11 (4.8%) right and 5 (2.2%) left. We further differentiated the convexity lying either medially or laterally in the transverse or frontal plane, or oriented dorsally or ventral in the sagittal plane. The exact location of the origin of the artery on the circumference of the subclavian artery (47% cranial, 44% dorsal, 3% ventral, 6% caudal) and also the average values of length and diameter are described. No significant differences between tortuous and nontortuous vessels were found with respect to length and diameter. A real abnormality of the origin of the vertebral artery was found in 8 (3.5%) cases.The described morphologic variations and frequencies of the VI segment of the vertebral artery have clinical applications in a wide field of pathologies in that region. To know about these findings seems to be very important not only in diagnosis (angiography, color coded doppler sonography) but also in their surgical and endovascular treatment.