Modular bifurcation endoprosthesis for treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms. The authors analyzed a single group's experience treating abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) with a new self-expanding, modular, bifurcated device.Successful exclusion of AAAs by prototype devices has led to several controlled clinical trials evaluating prostheses designed and manufactured specifically for this application.Sixteen patients (15 males, 1 female) of American Society of Anesthesiologists grade 2 through 4 and average age of 72 years had AAAs (average 57-mm diameter) treated as part of a phase I Food and Drug Administration-approved trial.All patients were treated successfully with no surgical conversions. No endoleaks or aneurysm enlargement was noted either predischarge by contrast computed tomography or on follow-up at 1 month by duplex ultrasound examination. At 6 months, 12 of 13 patients who were observed for this interval had no endoleaks, whereas one patient (patient 3) showed a small area of extravasation that appeared to arise from the device in an area that was traumatized at the time of deployment. One procedure-related mortality (6%) occurred in a patient who died of septic complications secondary to a gangrenous gallbladder diagnosed 1 day after the procedure. There were no device-related mortalities. Complications included two iliac artery dissections, two groin wound infections, and two transient elevations of serum creatinine. Other significant variables including median procedure length (5 hours), intensive care unit stay (1 day), hospitalization postprocedure (4.5 days), and blood loss (1100 mL) all decreased as the study progressed. Blood replacement in all but three patients was accomplished by autotransfusion or banked-autologous blood replacement. At 6-month follow-up in 13 patients, the maximum diameter of the aneurysm decreased by an average of 5.6 mm (range, 0-15 mm), and the maximal cross-sectional area decreased an average of 20.3% (range, 0-72%).This study suggests that endovascular prosthesis exclusion of AAAs using a self-expanding modular device may be effective in many patients who are otherwise surgical candidates for repair if further clinical studies confirm these observations.