Dual control of streptokinase and streptolysin S production by the covRS and fasCAX two-component regulators in Streptococcus dysgalactiae subsp. equisimilis. Synthesis of the plasminogen activator streptokinase (SK) by group A streptococci (GAS) has recently been shown to be subject to control by two two-component regulators, covRS (or csrRS) and fasBCA. In independent studies, response regulator CovR proved to act as the repressor, whereas FasA was found to act indirectly as the activator by controlling the expression of a stimulatory RNA, fasX. In an attempt at understanding the regulation of SK production in the human group C streptococcal (GCS) strain H46A, the strongest SK producer known yet, we provide here physical and functional evidence for the presence of the cov and fas systems in GCS as well and, using a mutational approach, compare the balance between their opposing actions in H46A and GAS strain NZ131. Sequence analysis combined with Southern hybridization revealed that the covRS and fasCAX operons are preserved at high levels of primary structure identity between the corresponding GAS and GCS genes, with the exception of fasB, encoding a second sensor kinase that is not a member of the GCS fas operon. This analysis also showed that wild-type H46A is actually a derepressed mutant for SK and streptolysin S (SLS) synthesis, carrying a K102 amber mutation in covR. Using cov and fas mutations in various combinations together with strain constructs allowing complementation in trans, we found that, in H46A, cov and fas contribute to approximately equal negative and positive extents, respectively, to constitutive SK and SLS activity. The amounts of SK paralleled the level of skc(H46A) transcription. The most profound difference between H46A and NZ131 regarding the relative activities of the cov and fas systems consisted in significantly higher activity of a functional CovR repressor in NZ131 than in H46A. In NZ131, CovR decreased SK activity in a Fas(+) background about sevenfold, compared to a 1.9-fold reduction of SK activity in H46A. Combined with the very short-lived nature of covR mRNA (decay rate, 1.39/min), such differences may contribute to strain-specific peculiarities of the expression of two prominent streptococcal virulence factors in response to environmental changes.