Lack of mitogenic activity of speG- and speG(dys)-positive Streptococcus dysgalactiae subspecies equisimilis isolates from patients with invasive infections. In recent years, Streptococcus dysgalactiae subspecies equisimilis has been isolated with an increasing frequency as the cause of invasive streptococcal diseases. For 46 S. dysgalactiae subspecies equisimilis isolates from invasive infections and four isolates from superficial infections, the presence of emm/emmL genes and of genes encoding various different streptococcal superantigens was determined by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Subsequently, PCR products were identified by DNA sequencing, and the expression of mRNA from superantigen genes was assessed by reverse transcriptase-PCR. The mitogenic activity of S. dysgalactiae subspecies equisimilis was assessed by [3H]thymidine incorporation into human lymphocytes and compared with that of Streptococcus agalactiae and Streptococcus pyogenes. All S. dysgalactiae subspecies equisimilis isolates studied harbored an emm/emmL gene. Only in six of the S. dysgalactiae subspecies equisimilis isolates from invasive infections, speG was detected by PCR, two of which were further identified as speGdys by sequencing of the PCR product. None of the S. dysgalactiae subspecies equisimilis isolates harbored any of the genes speA, speB, speC, speF, speH, speI, speJ, speK, speL, speM, smeZ, or ssa of S. pyogenes. In contrast to S. pyogenes, no expression of speG or speGdys mRNA, respectively, was detected in the reverse transcriptase-PCR assay for any of the speG- or speGdys-positive S. dysgalactiae subspecies equisimilis isolates. Moreover, S. dysgalactiae subspecies equisimilis and S. agalactiae revealed no or very low mitogenic activity, while S. pyogenes was a very powerful inducer of proliferative responses. These findings support the hypothesis that the pathogenicity of S. dysgalactiae subspecies equisimilis may be associated in part with the presence of emm/emmL genes, and suggest that the severity of S. dysgalactiae subspecies equisimilis invasive infections is not mediated by superantigen-induced mitogenicity.