Streptococcus pyogenes outbreak in a long-term care facility. Although outbreaks involving Streptococcus pyogenes have been uncommon among the elderly population, recent reports suggest that this organism is an important nosocomial pathogen among institutionalized older patients and carries significant morbidity and mortality. An outbreak of S. pyogenes, type M12, T12, occurred in a large long-term care institution serving the ill and chronically disabled. The outbreak involved 14 residents of the intermediate care facility and lasted for 4 months.A prospective epidemiologic investigation was initiated at the onset of the outbreak. Pertinent clinical and demographic information regarding both residents and personnel was obtained by interview, review of medical and surveillance records, and examination of patients for lesions. Cultures were obtained within 24 hours of symptom onset from those with characteristic clinical symptoms. Unpaired convalescent sera were tested for group A streptococcal extracellular antigens by a rapid hemagglutination slide test. Control measures included active surveillance of residents and staff for suspicious clinical syndromes, transfer of high-risk patients, elimination of a common seating area, and improved handwashing and hygiene measures.The attack rate was 7.5%, with 64.3% of these patients residing on one unit. S. pyogenes was isolated from eight residents, 5 residents had a characteristic syndrome and an elevated streptozyme hemagglutination titer of 400, and 1 resident died within hours of having cellulitis of the groin. Clinical syndromes included cellulitis, pharyngitis, bronchitis, pneumonia, and septicemia. Seven residents required acute care two residents died within 3 weeks of the onset, yielding a case fatality rate of 14.3%.The major means of transmission appeared to be direct contact between residents, although transmission from an infected staff member may have accounted for some cases. The hypothesis of long-term colonization was supported by the extended times between infections. The severity of illness and the apparent transmission through direct contact between residents warrants (1) early detection of infected lesions, (2) recognition of invasive illness, (3) prompt effective treatment, and (4) surveillance for S. pyogenes infections among residents and personnel.