Cellular and humoral systemic and mucosal immune responses stimulated in volunteers by an oral polybacterial immunomodulator "Dentavax". The oral polybacterial immunomodulator Dentavax (D), composed of killed cells from Klebsiella pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes, Staphylococcus aureus, Candida albicans and Lactobacillus acidophilus and their lysates was created for immunoprophylaxis and therapy of oral mucosa and parodont inflammations. The stimulating effect of the preparation was evaluated in twelve volunteers immunized for 10 consecutive days. On days 7, 14, 21, 28 and 49 after the last immunization peripheral blood (PB) lymphocyte subsets, T lymphocyte activation and PB phagocytic activity, were studied by flow cytometry. PB lymphocyte proliferative responses to PHA, rIL-2, LPS and D were evaluated radiometrically. The production of TNF-alpha in supernatants of in vitro stimulated lymphocytes and specific IgA, IgM and IgG antibodies in serum and saliva was determined by ELISA. Ultrastructural morphologic changes in T and B lymphocyte populations were also investigated. Although no significant changes in the levels of basic lymphocyte subsets were detected, the early/late (CD57+/CD57-) CD8 T effectors ratio was increased at the end of the studied period, as were the percentage of PHA-responding (CD69+) T cells and PB phagocytizing cells. The most prominent lymphoprolipherative responses were measured upon costimulation with LPS+D and PHA+D on day 21. Electron-microscopic studies demonstrated a significant effect of D on both T and B cell activity. TNF-alpha concentration increased progressively from day 7 till the end of the investigation. Maximal concentrations were observed after stimulation with D and LPS. An increased level of specific salivary and serum antibodies against the components of D was found, with highest levels between days 7 and 21. Specific secretory IgA predominated in saliva as compared to IgM and IgG. Our results demonstrate the stimulating effect of Dentavax on PB lymphocyte functional activity and the specific humoral systemic and mucosal immunity.