A remote fuzzy multicriteria diagnosis of sore throat. A sore throat (also known as pharyngitis or tonsillitis) is most commonly caused by a contagious viral infection (such as the flu, cold, or mononucleosis), although more serious throat infections can be caused by a bacterial infection (such as strep, mycoplasma, or Haemophilus). Bacterial sore throats respond well to antibiotics, whereas viral ones do not. However, strep throat remains a leading cause for physician visits, and researchers have long struggled to determine how best to treat it. The current practice guidelines offer different management options for adult patients presenting with a sore throat. Thus, when a physician treats a patient with acute pharyngitis, the clinical decision that usually needs to be made is whether the pharyngitis is attributable to group A streptococci. The key concern is the degree to which the clinical possibility of a group A streptococcal infection should affect clinician's decisions. To determine the best treatment of pharyngitis, we conducted a multicriteria decision analysis using fuzzy reasoning for remote health service delivery between a healthcare provider and patients. The approach can be adopted for interactive phone use or online system application. Five alternative treatment options were considered, particularly: (a) no test no Rx, (b) rapid strep, (c) culture, (d) rapid strep and culture, and (e) empiric Rx. Fuzzy reasoning is used to examine the signs/symptoms and their ratings. The study includes seven criteria factors that can be rated according to each alternative clinical treatment using linguistic statements. The model shows that no test no Rx is the best option for the cases of low prevalence of group A streptococcal infection. Two strategies--culture and treat if positive and rapid strep with culture of negative results--are equally preferable for patients with moderate prevalence likelihood. Rapid strep and culture of negative results is the best management strategy for patients with high population prevalence of group A streptococcal infection. In conclusion, the best clinical management of patients with sore throat depends on both the clinical probability of group A streptococcal infection and clinical judgments that incorporate the importance ratings of the individual patients as well as practice circumstances.