The amino-terminal region of group A streptococcal M protein determines its molecular state of assembly and function. Group A streptococcal M protein, a major virulence factor, is an alpha-helical coiled-coil dimer on the surface of the bacteria. Limited proteolysis of type 57 streptococcus with pepsin released two fragments of the M57 molecule, with apparent molecular weights of 32,000 and 27,000 on SDS-PAGE. However, on gel filtration under nondenaturing conditions, each of these proteins eluted as two distinct molecular forms. The two forms corresponded to their dimeric and monomeric state as compared to the gel filtration characteristics of known dimeric coiled-coil proteins. The results of sedimentation equilibrium measurements were consistent with this, but further indicated that the "dimeric form" consisted of a dimer in rapid equilibrium with its monomer, whereas the "monomeric form" does not dimerize. The monomeric form was the predominant species for the 27 kD species, whereas the dimeric form predominated for the 32 kD species. Sequence analysis revealed the 27 kD species to be a truncated derivative of the 32 kD PepM57 species, lacking the N-terminal nonheptad region of the M57 molecule. These data strongly suggested that the N-terminal nonheptad region of PepM57 is important in determining the molecular state of the molecule. Consistent with this, PepM49, another nephritis-associated serotype, which lacks the nonheptad N-terminal region, also eluted as a monomer on gel filtration under nondenaturing conditions. Furthermore, removal of the N-terminal nonheptad segment of the dimeric PepM6 protein converted it into a monomeric form. The dimeric molecular form of both the 32 kD PepM57 and the 27 kD PepM57 did not represent a stable state of assembly, and were susceptible to conversion to the corresponding monomeric molecular forms by simple treatments, such as lyophilization. The 27 kD PepM57 exhibited a greater propensity than the 32 kD species to exist in the monomeric form. The 32 kD species contained the opsonic epitope of the M57 molecule, whereas the 27 kD species lacked the same. This is consistent with the previous reports on the importance of the N-terminal region of M protein for its opsonic activity. Together, these results strongly suggest that, in addition to its importance for the biological function, the N-terminal region of the M protein plays a dominant role in determining the molecular state of the M molecule, as well as its stability.