A prospective, randomized, open-label trial comparing the safety and efficacy of trivalent live attenuated and inactivated influenza vaccines in adults 60 years of age and older. Although influenza is a major public health concern among adults ≥60 years of age, few large, prospective studies of influenza vaccines have been conducted in this population. The goal of the present study was to directly compare the safety and efficacy of LAIV and TIV in adults ≥60 years of age.A prospective, randomized, open-label, multicenter trial was conducted in South Africa. In March-April 2002, 3009 community-dwelling ambulatory adults 60-95 years of age were randomized 1:1 to receive a single dose of LAIV or TIV. Surveillance for influenza illness was conducted through November. Serum antibody titers were evaluated in all participants, and interferon-γ enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot assay responses were evaluated in a cohort of subjects. Solicited reactogenicity and adverse events were monitored for days 0-10 postvaccination serious adverse events were monitored for the entire study.Influenza illness caused by vaccine-matched strains was detected in 0.8% (12/1494) and 0.5% (8/1488) of LAIV and TIV recipients, respectively the relative efficacy of LAIV vs TIV was -49% (95% CI: -259, 35). As expected, greater serum antibody responses were seen with TIV, and greater cellular responses were seen with LAIV (although not for influenza B). Among subjects with culture-confirmed influenza illness, post hoc analyses revealed trends toward less feverishness (LAIV, 14%Given the low incidence of influenza in both groups, no conclusions were possible regarding the relative efficacy of LAIV and TIV. There was a trend toward less feverishness/fever among LAIV recipients who developed influenza compared with TIV recipients with influenza, consistent with results from studies comparing the vaccines in children. A disproportionate number of influenza illnesses occurred among baseline seronegative subjects, particularly for those receiving TIV, which suggests that this subgroup has the greatest need for improved influenza vaccination. The safety profiles of LAIV and TIV were consistent with results from previous studies in older adults and no significant safety concerns were identified. clinicaltrials.gov identifier, NCT00192413.