Expression of M type 12 protein by a group A streptococcus exhibits phaselike variation: evidence for coregulation of colony opacity determinants and M protein. Three major categories of colony opacity were observed for natural variants of the M type 12 (M12) group A streptococcus strain CS24. Colony opacity variants that switched between two alternative categories at significantly high frequencies were identified and are referred to as switching between more opaque (Op+) and less opaque (Op-) phenotypes. Twenty lineages of such variants were derived for analysis and were assessed for resistance to phagocytosis, acid-extractable M12 antigen, and M12 mRNA, criteria which define the M protein-positive phenotype (M+). Transition from the M+ to the M protein-negative phenotype (M-) correlated with a change from Op+ to Op-. Reversion to the Op+ phenotype was accompanied by reversion to the M+ state in all variants except one and occurred at a higher frequency than the forward M+ to M- switch. These data demonstrate the existence of M12 protein phaselike switching in the group A streptococcus strain CS24. The discovery of an Op+ M- revertant confirmed that colony opacity and M protein can be expressed independently and are distinct gene products. We suggest that coregulation of colony opacity and M protein expression accounts for their association among descendents of strain CS24. Southern blot hybridization analyses of digested genomic DNA from 27 M- variants and 15 M+ revertants were performed with DNA probes containing M12 protein and adjacent upstream sequences. DNA deletions were identified only in two stable M- variants, approximately 1.3 and 1.4 kilobases upstream from the M12 gene, respectively, whereas all unstable M- variants lacked detectable rearrangements. This suggests that deletions within or adjacent to the structural gene are unlikely to be responsible for the reversible switch in M protein expression. However, the association with the stable M- phenotype and the location of these deletions, as well as two other deletions, approximately 0.5 kilobase upstream from the M12 promoter in two previously described variants of strain CS24 suggests that a second gene product is required for full expression of M12 protein synthesis in this strain.