Stimulation of human T cells by streptococcal "superantigen" erythrogenic toxins (scarlet fever toxins). The pyrogenic (erythrogenic) exotoxins A and C (SPEA and SPEC) of Streptococcus pyogenes belong to the family of mitogenic toxins of which the staphylococcal enterotoxins are the prototypes. The erythrogenic toxin B (SPEB) is a proteinase precursor. All SPE have been reported to be superantigens. Here we have analyzed the human T cell response to these toxins. We used highly purified preparations of SPEA, SPEB, and SPEC from different S. pyogenes strains. These toxins were apparently homogenous in SDS-PAGE, IEF, and HPLC. In addition, recombinant SPEA and SPEC were produced in Escherichia coli. In cultures of PBMC, all three toxins expanded preferentially a fraction of T cells. Using mAb against V beta 2, -5, -6, -8, and -12, we investigated the phenotype of the stimulated cells. Natural SPEA, SPEB, and SPEC strongly stimulated V beta 8+ T cells, whereas recombinant SPEA and SPEC did not. Both natural and recombinant SPEA stimulated V beta 12+ cells and both natural and recombinant SPEC stimulated V beta 2+ cells. In accordance with these findings, a human V beta 8+ line responded to all three toxins derived from S. pyogenes but not to the recombinant proteins. An antiserum against natural SPEC neutralized specifically the V beta 2-stimulating activity of SPEC and the V beta 8-stimulating activity of all three toxins, but had no effect on the response to other superantigens. This shows that trace amounts of a potent novel V beta 8-stimulating activity not identical to SPEA and SPEC are responsible for the stimulation of V beta 8+ T cells by natural SPEA and SPEC reported previously. In a preliminary screening of S. pyogenes strains from patients, we found that this novel superantigen appears to be more widely distributed than SPEA and SPEC. Furthermore, we present evidence that also the superantigenic properties of SPEB are due to contaminations with this V beta 8 stimulator. The response to SPEB usually required 1000 times higher concentrations than to SPEA or SPEC. Antisera to SPEC but not to SPEB inhibited the response of PBMC and V beta 8+ Jurkat cells to SPEB. Furthermore, more stringent purification of SPEB yielded SPEB preparations devoid of mitogenic activity. These results indicate that the mitogenicity that is commonly attributed to SPEB is due to minute contaminations of the V beta 8 stimulator. These results raise two important caveats for the work with these highly potent T cell mitogens.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)