Colonization in the rectum and uterine cervix with group B streptococci may induce specific antibody responses in cervical secretions of pregnant women. We have studied the relationships between genital or rectal carriage of group B streptococci (GBS) with the levels of systemic and mucosal antibodies to GBS in 200 women at about week 17 of pregnancy. Secretions from the uterine cervix were collected with absorbent cylindrical wicks for quantification of antibody levels with whole cell enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. GBS were cultured from the cervix (with or without concomitant rectal colonization) of 13.5%, from the rectum (with or without concomitant cervical colonization) of 12%, and from both culture sites of 8.5% of the women. Serotypes Ia, II, and III were predominant. Compared with culture-negative women, the group of women colonized rectally had markedly elevated levels of both immunoglobulin A (IgA) and IgG antibodies to GBS in cervical secretions and also had a moderate but significant elevation of IgA antibodies in sera. Women colonized only in the cervix had increases of specific IgA and IgG antibodies in cervical secretions, but their serum antibody levels were not elevated. In cervical secretions, the increase in antibody levels in the groups of colonized women was most pronounced for the IgG isotype, indicating a mucosal immune response involving IgG as well as IgA. A close correlation was found among the levels of antibodies to each of the three GBS serotypes tested. Evidence for such cross-reacting antibodies to different serotypes of GBS, as well as to group A streptococci, was also obtained from absorption experiments. Altogether, our results show that undiluted secretions for antibody determination can be easily collected from the uterine cervix with absorbent wicks and demonstrate that colonization of GBS in the rectum and the uterine cervix may induce a systemic as well as a pronounced local immune response in the female genital tract. The findings may have implications for the development of a mucosal vaccine against GBS disease.