Fatty acids for myocardial imaging. Radioiodinated free fatty acids are tracers that can be used to assess both myocardial perfusion and metabolism. There have been several fatty acids and structurally modified fatty acids studied since Evans' initial report of radiolabeled I-123 oleic acid in 1965. The radiolabeling of a phenyl group added to the long chain fatty acids in the omega-terminal position opposite the carboxyl terminal group prevents nonspecific deiodination and the rapid release of free iodine as the tracer undergoes beta-oxidation. The additional inclusion of a methyl or dimethyl group to the chain slows oxidation resulting in prolonged myocardial retention. The longer retention of the radiolabel permits longer image acquisitions more compatible with single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging, especially with single-detector imaging systems. Several protocols have been implemented using these compounds, particularly 15-(para-iodophenyl)-3-R,S-methyl pentadecanoic BMIPP, to detect abnormal fatty acid metabolism in ischemic heart disease as well as in nonischemic and hypertrophic cardiomyopathies. Successful management of patients with ischemic cardiomyopathies depends on the accurate identification of hibernating myocardium. The studies covered in this review suggest that both IPPA and BMIPP, especially when combined with markers of myocardial perfusion, may be excellent tracers of viable and potentially functional myocardium. Future studies with larger numbers of patients are needed to confirm the results of these studies and to compare their efficacy with that of other available imaging modalities. Cost and distribution issues will have to be resolved for these metabolic tracers to compete in the commercial marketplace. Otherwise they will likely be available only on a limited basis for research use. As progress is made with these issues and with the development of newer imaging systems, the use of radioiodinated and fluorinated fatty acids is likely to be increasingly attractive.