Magnetic resonance pharmacological stress for detecting coronary disease. Comparison with echocardiography. Stress testing is the cornerstone in the diagnosis of patients with suspected coronary artery disease (CAD). Although exercise ECG remains the primary approach for the detection of ischemia in patients with chest pain syndromes, its sensitivity and specificity is limited and exercise ECG does not provide detailed information about the localisation and extent of CAD. Stress echocardiography has been used for the detection of ischemia for more than a decade and has become an increasingly popular noninvasive method for the detection of CAD. In experienced hands wall motion analysis based on stress echocardiography has proved to be as sensitive and specific for the detection of myocardial ischemia as scintigraphic techniques. Recent technical improvements, namely the availability of ultrafast imaging sequences with a significant reduction of imaging time have initiated several studies which examined the combination of pharmacological stress and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for the detection of suspected CAD. The most well developed stress-MRI technique is wall motion imaging during dobutamine stress. This technique is analogous to stress echocardiography, but MRI has the inherent advantages of better resolution, higher reproducibility and true long and short axis imaging with contiguous parallel slices. However, the clinical impact of MRI for the diagnosis of CAD is still low. Further technical developments including real time imaging and a reliable automated quantitative analysis of left ventricular function are required before stress-MRI becomes a serious challenge to stress-echocardiography in the clinical arena. Currently, only a few MRI facilities and physicians are dedicated to pharmacological stress testing with MRI and the future clinical impact of this promising technique will depend on its potential to provide information beyond myocardial function including perfusion, metabolism and coronary anatomy in form of a "one-stop"-shop for the cardiac patient.