Chronic peritoneal dialysis in iron-deficient rats with solutions containing iron dextran. We evaluated the effects of different concentrations of iron dextran administered through the intraperitoneal route, in iron-deficient rats, on hematocrit (Hct in percentage), serum iron (mg/dL), total iron binding capacity (TIBC in mg/dL), and the function and histology of the peritoneal membrane.Seventy-two male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 85 to 110 g were divided into two groups and seven subgroups. Group I consisted of rats on iron-deficient chow, and group II consisted of rats on normal chow. Both groups contained dialysis control subgroups (N = 12: IA, IID), dialyzed with Dianeal solution, and tissue control subgroups (N = 6: IE, IIN), in which rats were not dialyzed and catheters were not implanted. Study group I contained the following study subgroups (N = 12): (B) rats dialyzed with Dianeal solution containing 2 mg/L of iron dextran and (C) rats dialyzed with Dianeal solution containing 1 mg/L of iron dextran. Group IID was dialyzed with Dianeal solution containing 2 mg/dL of iron dextran. Study duration was 12 weeks with peritoneal equilibration tests (PETs) performed at baseline, 6 weeks, and 12 weeks. Prior to baseline, rats were placed on iron-deficient chow or normal chow for three weeks. Dialysis was performed with three 25 mL volume exchanges per day. Hematocrit (Hct), serum iron (Fe), and total iron binding capacity (TIBC) were determined for each study interval. After the final PET, the animals were sacrificed, and the peritoneal membrane was evaluated by gross inspection and light microscopy.Rats on an iron-deficient diet developed severe iron-deficiency anemia after three weeks of the diet (Hct 27 Fe 21 to 23Intraperitoneal iron dextran supplementation in concentrations of 2 mg/L of dialysis solution is nontoxic to the peritoneum and effective in correcting iron deficiency in rats maintained on an iron-deficient diet. Iron dextran in concentration of 1 mg/L of dialysis solution may be sufficient for correcting a lesser degree of iron deficiency.