The preoperative assessment and postoperative surveillance of patients with colon and rectal cancer. Many advances have been made in the field of colorectal cancer follow-up since the pioneering efforts of Wangensteen and others with second-look operations in the 1950s. The understanding of the biology and natural history of colorectal malignancy has been advanced. Diagnostic methods for detection of recurrent disease have also advanced tremendously with CEA monitoring, immunoscintigraphy. CT, MRI, and PET imaging. As has been discussed in this article, however, no strategy of postoperative follow-up has been shown unequivocally to produce improved survival benefit or cure rate. It is quite possible that benefit will be shown, but well-controlled trials will be required. Cost considerations will likely prove important, because the rate of detection of curable disease will likely.be low. Quality of life issues will also be important in such trials. Better treatment and outcome ol recurrent disease would provide a strong rationale for vigorous postoperative surveillance. New recommendations are currently evolving [54]. Early diagnosis seems likely to enhance the curability of both local and distant relapses and second primary tumors. Furthermore, there may be a survival and quality of life advantage that results from the early institution of chemotherapy, even for those tumors found to be inoperable [55]. In devising a plan for follow-up in patients, it is important to recognize the anatomic and temporal patterns of recurrence as well as their relationships to the initial tumor staging. Although there is little proof that the identification of recurrent disease in follow-up programs increases the likelihood of resectability, cure, or prolonged survival, many physicians have witnessed successful treatment of recurrent colorectal cancer. These anecdotal experiences, the unproven belief that follow-up is beneficial, and traditions imparted during training are among the likely motivating factors for most physicians caring for colorectal cancer patients.