The serum assay of tumour markers in the prognostic evaluation, treatment monitoring and follow-up of patients with cervical cancer: a review of the literature. Pre-treatment serum squamous cell carcinoma antigen [SCC] levels are elevated in 28-88% of patients with squamous cell cervical cancer, and are related to tumour stage, tumour size, depth of stromal invasion, lymph-vascular space status, parametrial involvement and lymph node status. The clinical relevance of pre-treatment serum SCC assay is still debated. Some authors reported that it has no prognostic value, some others found that it is related to survival at univariate analysis, and some others detected that is an independent prognostic variable for survival. Serial SCC measurements reflect both the tumour response to treatment and the clinical outcome of patients. Increasing SCC levels can precede the clinical diagnosis of recurrent disease in 46-92% of the cases, with a mean lead time ranging from 2 to 8 months. According to some authors serum SCC assay during the follow-up does not improve the cure rate of patients who will ultimately develop a recurrence. However, it has been recently reported that the performance of a positron emission tomography [PET] in patients with asymptomatic SCC elevation can sometimes allow an earlier diagnosis of relapse with a survival benefit. SCC is a more sensitive serum tumour marker than CYFRA 21-1 for squamous cell cervical cancer in most series. Pre-treatment CA 125 levels are raised in 20-75% of patients with cervical adenocarcinoma, and reflect tumour stage, tumour size, histological grade, cervical stromal invasion, lymph-vascular space status and lymph node status. Elevated serum CA 125 has been also detected in patients with squamous cell cervical cancer, but with a positivity rate lower than that found in patients with cervical adenocarcinoma. Pre-treatment CA 125 levels appear to have a prognostic value, and rising serum CA 125 during follow-up may precede or be coincident with the clinical diagnosis of recurrent cervical adenocarcinoma. Serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF] are often elevated in patients with cervical cancer, and decrease significantly after successful treatment. However, the clinical relevance of serum VEGF assay is still investigational.