Lys-cys-cys-tyr-ser-leu-(gly-ser-gly)-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane- The epidermal growth factor (EGF) and its receptor (EGFR) are known to play a role in the neoplastic transformation of cells (1). The EGFR is a tyrosine kinase receptor family that includes four members, EGFR and three other human EGF receptors (HERs) designated as HER2/ErbB2, HER3/ErbB3, and HER4/ErbB4. The four receptors constitute the HER-kinase axis and regulate cellular responses through complex receptor–ligand interactions. The various signal transduction pathways that respond to EGFR activation and mediate cell responses have been described by Brandt et al. (2). The various EGFRs are known to be amplified, mutated, or overexpressed in several cancers and are a target for the development of pharmaceutical agents that inhibit either the receptor or the signal transduction pathway (3). It has also been reported that the detection of circulating ErbB2-positive tumor cells indicates a poor prognosis for the cancer patient (4). A variety of inhibitors, including small molecules, antibodies, vaccines, and gene therapies, have been developed and tested against the EGFRs for the treatment of cancer (5, 6). However, to achieve therapeutic effects the receptor or signal transduction pathway must be involved in maintenance of the malignant phenotype because HER inhibitor therapy does not necessarily result in treatment of a cancer (7). The use of antibodies alone against EGFR (e.g., cetuximab) and ErbB2 (e.g., trastuzumab) for the treatment of cancer has yielded only moderate results, and it has been observed that antibodies are most useful when used in combination with chemotherapy (8). In some cases cardiotoxicity has been reported in individuals treated with trastuzumab in combination with some chemotherapeutic agents (9). In an effort to develop better and safer anti-cancer drugs, investigators have attempted to use peptides that bind to receptors on tumors to treat the disease (10, 11). The development of peptide pharmaceuticals has also been pursued because, compared to the larger biomolecules such as antibodies, these molecules are easier to synthesize and have low immunogenicity, rapid blood clearance, and a higher uptake in tumor tissue (12). Using bacteriophage technology, a peptide of six amino acids, lys-cys-cys-tyr-ser-leu (KCCYSL), that specifically recognizes and binds the extracellular domain of ErbB2 was identified, and the investigators hypothesized that the peptide could be developed into an imaging and therapeutic agent against cancer cells that overexpress ErbB2 (13). As an extension to the earlier study, the tumor imaging and targeting ability of KCCYSL was evaluated after labeling with radioactive indium (