The role of positron emission tomography/computed tomography in radiation therapy planning for patients with lung cancer. Positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) has rapidly assumed a critical role in the management of patients with locoregionally advanced lung cancers who are candidates for definitive radiation therapy (RT). Definitive RT is given with curative intent, but can only be successful in patients without distant metastasis and if all gross tumor is contained within the treated volume. An increasing body of evidence supports the use of PET-based imaging for selection of patients for both surgery and definitive RT. Similarly, the use of PET/CT images for accurate target volume definition in lung cancer is a dynamic area of research. Most available evidence on PET staging of lung cancer relates to non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In general clinical use, (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) is the primary radiopharmaceutical useful in NSCLC. Other tracers, including proliferation markers and hypoxia tracers, may have significant roles in future. Much of the FDG-PET literature describing the impact of PET on actual patient management has concerned candidates for surgical resection. In the few prospective studies where PET was used for staging and patient selection in NSCLC candidates for definitive RT, 25%-30% of patients were denied definitive RT, generally because PET detected unsuspected advanced locoregional or distant metastatic disease. PET/CT and CT findings are often discordant in NSCLC but studies with clinical-pathological correlation always show that PET-assisted staging is more accurate than conventional assessment. In all studies in which "PET-defined" and "non-PET-defined" RT target volumes were compared, there were major differences between PET and non-PET volumes. Therefore, in cases where PET-assisted and non-PET staging are different and biopsy confirmation is unavailable, it is rational to use the most accurate modality (namely PET/CT) to define the target volume. The use of PET/CT in patient selection and target volume definition is likely to lead to improvements in outcome for patients with NSCLC.