Preliminary characterization of bioresorbable and nonresorbable synthetic fibers for the repair of soft tissue injuries. Preliminary characterizations of two new synthetic fibers were performed to determine their potentials for use in soft tissue scaffolding devices. A slowly bioresorbing random copolymer of dimethyltrimethylene carbonate (DMTMC) and trimethylene carbonate (TMC) was the first fiber evaluated. The second was a nonresorbable high-strength synthetic fiber of highly oriented polyethylene. Their in vitro mechanical behavior was evaluated by loading fibers in uniaxial tension to determine mechanical properties in dry and wet (saline) environments. The polyethylene fiber had a dry strength of approximately 2.0 GPa, an ultimate strain of 3 to 4%, a tangent modulus of 57 GPa, and was not affected by the saline environment. The bioresorbable fiber had a dry strength of approximately 500 MPa, an ultimate strain of 35%, and tangent modulus of 5.4 GPa. The in vitro resorption of the bioresorbable fibers produced a 15% loss in strength over a 10-week period. In vitro cell-fiber compatibility studies were conducted to assay material biocompatibility and fiber substrate efficacy. Fibroblasts proliferated and migrated on both the polyethylene and bioresorbable fibers at rates similar to those previously found for other compatible fibers, thus demonstrating the new materials to be similar in their in vitro biocompatibility profiles. Morphological assessment with SEM also confirmed that these materials were suitable substrates for cell attachment. A rabbit Achilles tendon repair model using oriented polyethylene or bioresorbable fiber tows was evaluated after 12 and 26 weeks of implantation. The mechanical performances of both types of tendon repairs were similar to those found in previous studies using carbon or PET fibers. The polyethylene fibers elicited a low-grade chronic inflammatory tissue response. The bioresorbable fibers were still intact at 26 weeks and remained relatively inert in the host tissue, eliciting a minimal foreign body response.