Myocardial metabolic imaging by means of fluorine-18 deoxyglucose/technetium-99m sestamibi dual-isotope single-photon emission tomography. The detection of preserved glucose uptake in hypoperfused dysfunctional myocardium by fluorine-18 deoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) represents the method of choice in myocardial viability diagnostics. As the technique is not available for the majority of patients due to cost and the limited capacity of the PET centres, it was the aim of the present work to develop and test FDG single-photon emission tomography (SPET) with the means of conventional nuclear medicine. The perfusion marker sestamibi (MIBI) was used together with the metabolic tracer FDG in dual-isotope acquisition. A conventional SPET camera was equipped with a 511-keV collimator and designed to operate with simultaneous four-channel acquisition. In this way, the scatter of 18F into the technetium-99m energy window could be taken into account by a novel method of scatter correction. Thirty patients with regional wall motion abnormalities at rest were investigated. The results of visual wall motion analysis by contrast cine-ventriculography in nine segments/heart were compared with the results of quantitative scintigraphy. The scintigraphic patterns of MIBI and FDG tracer accumulation were defined as normal, matched defects and perfusion-metabolism mismatches. Spatial resolution of the system was satisfactory, with a full width at half maximum (FWHM) of 15.2 mm for 18F and 14.0 mm for 99mTc, as measured by planar imaging in air at 5 cm distance from the collimator. Image quality allowed interpretation in all 30 patients. 88% of segments without relevant wall motion abnormalities presented normal scintigraphic results. Seventy-five akinetic segments showed mismatches in 27%, matched defects in 44% and normal perfusion in 29%. We conclude that FDG-MIBI dual-isotope SPET is technically feasible with the means of conventional nuclear medicine. Thus, the method is potentially available for widespread application in patient care and may represent an alternative to the 201Tl reinjection technique.