Stroke and functional rehabilitation: the Chinese experience. According to an epidemiological study of cerebrovascular disease carried out in China in 1986, the prevalence, incidence, and mortality rates were 159.93/100,000, 115.61/100,000, and 31.33/100,000, respectively. These figures were high compared to available epidemiological data for the rest of the world. This highlights the fact that, as in other countries, functional rehabilitation after stroke is an important medical and social need in China. Clinical experience shows that within a few hours to a few months after a stroke, a large proportion of patients spontaneously experience partial, or on occasion, complete recovery from neurologic symptoms. However, functional rehabilitation in medical care units is required because it assists in and accelerates the recovery of impaired function. Almitrine-raubasine has been used to improve functional rehabilitation after stroke for some time in China. By enriching the oxygen content of arterial blood, it brings more oxygen to the cerebral tissues and therefore promotes cerebral aerobic metabolism during ischemia. In the acute phase of stroke, positron emission tomography showed, in man, that almitrine-raubasine helps normalize the ischemic penumbra area, as shown by an improvement in the coupling between oxygenation and perfusion. Long after stroke, single photon emission computed tomography showed that almitrine-raubasine restores normal cerebral vasodilator response to acetazolamide. With a view to further documenting the clinical efficacy of almitrine-raubasine on the convalescent period of patients with cerebrovascular disease, a double-blind, placebo-controlled study is planned. One hundred patients with ischemic cerebrovascular disease in the territory of the carotid artery will be included 4-6 weeks after the acute onset. Two tablets daily of almitrine-raubasine or placebo will be prescribed for 3-6 months. Before treatment, there will be a 2-week washout period for all other drugs, except for antihypertensive and antidiabetic drugs. In addition to complete clinical monthly examinations, neurological functional deficit scores, Barthel index, Hasagawa Dementia scales, and CT scan are scheduled. The study results should confirm those reported in the scientific literature: although untreated patients may show spontaneous improvement, almitrine-raubasine should accelerate patients' functional rehabilitation.