Synthesis, characterisation and optical spectroscopy of platinum(II) di-ynes and poly-ynes incorporating condensed aromatic spacers in the backbone. A series of protected and terminal dialkynes with extended pi-conjugation through a condensed aromatic linker unit in the backbone, 1,4-bis(trimethylsilylethynyl)naphthalene, 1,4-bis(ethynyl)naphthalene, 9,10-bis(trimethylsilylethynyl)anthracene, 9,10-bis(ethynyl)anthracene, have been synthesized and characterized spectroscopically. The solid-state structures of and have been confirmed by single crystal X-ray diffraction studies. Reaction of two equivalents of the complex trans-[Ph(Et(3)P)(2)PtCl] with an equivalent of the terminal dialkynes 1,4-bis(ethynyl)benzene and, in (i)Pr(2)NH-CH(2)Cl(2), in the presence of CuI, at room temperature, afforded the platinum(II) di-ynes trans-[Ph(Et(3)P)(2)Pt-C[triple bond, length as m-dash]C-R-C[triple bond, length as m-dash]C-Pt(PEt(3))(2)Ph](R = benzene-1,4-diyl naphthalene-1,4-diyl and anthracene-9,10-diyl ) while reactions between equimolar quantities of trans-[((n)Bu(3)P)(2)PtCl(2)] and under similar conditions readily afforded the platinum(II) poly-ynes trans-[-((n)Bu(3)P)(2)Pt-C[triple bond]C-R-C[triple bond]C-](n)(R = naphthalene-1,4-diyl and anthracene-9,10-diyl ). The Pt(II) diynes and poly-ynes have been characterized by analytical and spectroscopic methods, and the single crystal X-ray structures of and have been determined. These structures confirm the trans-square planar geometry at the platinum centres and the linear nature of the molecules. The di-ynes and poly-ynes are soluble in organic solvents and readily cast into thin films. Optical spectroscopic measurements reveal that the electron-rich naphthalene and anthracene spacers create strong donor-acceptor interactions between the Pt(II) centres and conjugated ligands along the rigid backbone of the organometallic polymers. Thermogravimetry shows that the di-ynes possess a somewhat higher thermal stability than the corresponding poly-ynes. Both the Pt(II) di-ynes and the poly-ynes exhibit increasing thermal stability along the series of spacers from phenylene through naphthalene to anthracene.