Hydrogen bonding in the electronic excited state. Because of its fundamental importance in many branches of science, hydrogen bonding is a subject of intense contemporary research interest. The physical and chemical properties of hydrogen bonds in the ground state have been widely studied both experimentally and theoretically by chemists, physicists, and biologists. However, hydrogen bonding in the electronic excited state, which plays an important role in many photophysical processes and photochemical reactions, has scarcely been investigated.  Upon electronic excitation of hydrogen-bonded systems by light, the hydrogen donor and acceptor molecules must reorganize in the electronic excited state because of the significant charge distribution difference between the different electronic states. The electronic excited-state hydrogen-bonding dynamics, which are predominantly determined by the vibrational motions of the hydrogen donor and acceptor groups, generally occur on ultrafast time scales of hundreds of femtoseconds. As a result, state-of-the-art femtosecond time-resolved vibrational spectroscopy is used to directly monitor the ultrafast dynamical behavior of hydrogen bonds in the electronic excited state. It is important to note that the excited-state hydrogen-bonding dynamics are coupled to the electronic excitation. Fortunately, the combination of femtosecond time-resolved spectroscopy and accurate quantum chemistry calculations of excited states resolves this issue in laser experiments. Through a comparison of the hydrogen-bonded complex to the separated hydrogen donor or acceptor in ground and electronic excited states, the excited-state hydrogen-bonding structure and dynamics have been obtained. Moreover, we have also demonstrated the importance of hydrogen bonding in many photophysical processes and photochemical reactions.  In this Account, we review our recent advances in electronic excited-state hydrogen-bonding dynamics and the significant role of electronic excited-state hydrogen bonding on internal conversion (IC), electronic spectral shifts (ESS), photoinduced electron transfer (PET), fluorescence quenching (FQ), intramolecular charge transfer (ICT), and metal-to-ligand charge transfer (MLCT). The combination of various spectroscopic experiments with theoretical calculations has led to tremendous progress in excited-state hydrogen-bonding research. We first demonstrated that the intermolecular hydrogen bond in the electronic excited state is greatly strengthened for coumarin chromophores and weakened for thiocarbonyl chromophores. We have also clarified that the intermolecular hydrogen-bond strengthening and weakening correspond to red-shifts and blue-shifts, respectively, in the electronic spectra. Moreover, radiationless deactivations (via IC, PET, ICT, MLCT, and so on) can be dramatically influenced through the regulation of electronic states by hydrogen-bonding interactions. Consequently, the fluorescence of chromophores in hydrogen-bonded surroundings is quenched or enhanced by hydrogen bonds. Our research expands our understanding of the nature of hydrogen bonding by delineating the interaction between hydrogen bonds and photons, thereby providing a basis for excited-state hydrogen bonding studies in photophysics, photochemistry, and photobiology.