Methods for detection of changes in muscle tonus. Muscular spasm is a frequent symptom which is difficult to record precisely. On the basis of literature on the subject and of own studies, we undertook to describe various methods of examination which could be used to demonstrate such changes. Up to now, palpation is still the most important and most exact method for the experienced examiner. In this way local as well as extended muscular spasms can be made evident. The disadvantage however is the lack of objective proof. The easy-to-use Tissue-Compliance-Meter of Fischer, which measures the consistency of soft tissue, documents the intraindividual difference rather than the interindividual difference. This is due to the individually variable thickness of the subcutaneous fatty tissue. However, on the whole there is a good correlation to the findings of palpation. The pendulous-test and badismography allow especially the conclusion with regard to unilateral changes of tonus in the gluteal and upper leg muscles. This method also very well suits the intraindividual comparison, but less so the interindividual one. The continuous electromyogram is able to show the enhanced activity in spasmotic muscles also during sleep. The evaluation of enhanced muscle activity remains uncertain when using plain electromyogram. Recording of muscle tissue oxygen pressure is of little use to evaluate muscle spasm. Nonetheless, it provides interesting insights into pathogenetic questions. Thermography, measuring the blood circulation at the skin surface, is especially suited for perceiving intraindividual differences in case of muscle spasm. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy allows for noninvasive pH measurements in the muscle and therewith renders certain data concerning the degree of tension of this tissue. It is not yet suited for routine examination. The value of positron emission tomography for registering muscle spasm remains uncertain. Hopefully, this method, which documents the muscle energy metabolism, will enable us to more clearly evaluate muscle spasm than previous methods have done. Light and electron microscopic studies have provided contradictory results concerning histological changes in muscle biopsy in case of muscle spasm.