Technetium-99m-DTPA-galactosyl human serum albumin liver scintigraphy evaluation of regional CT/MRI attenuation/signal intensity differences. Regional attenuation/signal intensity differences seen on CT/magnetic resonance imaging can be a clue in detecting regional hepatic blood flow abnormality. Sometimes, however, they can be misinterpreted as a hepatic neoplasm or, in the case of a true neoplasm, they can lead to an overestimation of its size because these regions often have similar attenuation or signal intensity to hepatic neoplasms. We evaluated 99mTc-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid-galactosyl human serum albumin (99mTc-DTPA-GSA) liver scintigrams in patients manifesting regional attenuation/signal intensity differences to further analyze the findings.Technetium-99m-DTPA-GSA scintigrams of 23 patients with regional attenuation/signal intensity differences in the liver at dynamic contrast-enhanced CT/magnetic resonance imaging were evaluated. The causes of the differences were arterioportal (AP) shunts in seven patients, decreases in the portal venous flow in seven patients, occlusion of right hepatic vein in one patient, confluent hepatic fibrosis in one patient and unknown in seven patients. The accumulation of 99mTc-DTPA-GSA was compared with each known cause of attenuation/signal intensity difference. Count ratios of the regions to normal hepatic parenchyma also were calculated in all cases.In AP shunts, none of seven patients showed any decreased accumulation in the region. Accumulation of 99mTc-DTPA-GSA decreased in six of seven patients who had decreases in portal venous flow this incidence was significantly higher than that in patients who had AP shunts (p < 0.005). In cases of unknown cause, two of seven patients showed a decrease in accumulation, but the other five showed no such decrease. The one patient with occlusion of the right hepatic vein showed no decrease, but the confluent hepatic fibrosis showed a significant decrease. The count ratio in AP shunts was significantly larger than that of the decrease in the portal venous flow (p < 0.005).Technetium-99m-DTPA-GSA accumulation in AP shunts has a different pattern from that found in patients with a decrease in portal venous flow. Therefore, differentiation between AP shunts, which showed no decrease in 99mTc-DTPA-GSA accumulation, and hepatic neoplasms can be made more easily.