Proposed abdominal sonographic staging to predict severity of liver diseases: analysis with peritoneoscopy and histology. Abdominal sonography is a routinely used noninvasive modality for screening and treatment of liver diseases. We attempted to establish a morphological sonographic staging to predict the severity of liver diseases with their consequent analysis with morphological staging of peritoneoscopy and histology. In all, 136 patients were enrolled for the final confirmation of disease state by peritoneoscopy and histology preceded by abdominal sonography. All patients were categorized from stage 0 to stage 5, depending on a proposed criterion of sonographic features based on surface pattern of liver and the appearance of internal echogenic bands relating to the irregularity of the liver texture. A digitized computer quantitation of histogram-based standard deviation (SD) values from different stages of sonographic images was analyzed, and their values were justified by correlation with the definite appearance of an internal echogenic band. The association of different sonographic stages with disease progression was also demonstrated by their relation with peritoneoscopy and histology. In all patients, the different sonographic staging results were significantly correlated with hepatic surface features of peritoneoscopic staging (r = 0.939, P < 0.0001) graded from stage 0 to stage 5 and were also correlated with biopsy-proven staging of fibrosis (r = 0.739, P < 0.0001). The greater SD values of histogram-based echo levels, as analyzed from digitized sonographic images of 90 patients, were associated with the appearance of internal echogenic bands (P < 0.0001). Furthermore, the corresponding SDS were significantly correlated with the qualitative staging of sonographic features (r = 0.781, P < 0.0001), peritoneoscopy (r = 0.786, P < 0.0001) and histology (r = 0.779, P < 0.0001). We concluded that our proposed sonographic staging is well correlated with peritoneoscopic and histological staging of liver diseases, with only a small discrepancy, and can be used clinically to demonstrate the ongoing severity of liver diseases.