Study on histopathology, ultrasonography and some special serum enzymes and collagens for 38 advanced patients of schistosomiasis japonica. Thirty-eight cases clinically diagnosed as advanced schistosomiaisis were subject to splenectomy in Dongzhi County Special Hospital for Schistosomiasis because of portal hypertension, splenomegaly and/or hypersplenism. Liver biopsy was undertaken in all cases during surgical intervention. Before operation, ultrasonography on the liver and spleen was carried out. Also done was biochemical assay on several indices related to liver damage and fibrosis. Among the 38 cases, 24 were diagnosed as schistosomiasis by the finding of eggs in feces, 13 were diagnosed by positive serological test with IHA or COPT, and only in one case, the diagnosis of schistosomiasis was doubtful before operation. However, the eggs were found in the liver section upon histological examination. All the 38 cases had symptoms and signs of portal hypertension and most of them had general symptoms. Histories of hematemesis and melena were recorded in three cases. The causes of hospitalization were mainly splenomegaly and abdominal distension, and two were suffering from upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Upon histopathological examination, schistosome eggs were found in 33 out of 38 cases. Advanced schistosomaiasis was shown in 18 cases and schistosomiasis associated with hepatitis or cirrhosis was seen in other 20 patients. The main pathological changes were egg granulomas with different degrees of fibrosis and some differences in the pathological changes between schistosomal liver fibrosis (SLF) and mixed liver cirrhosis (both schistosome and hepatitis in origin) were seen. Compared with normal ultrasonography, in all the 38 cases, the length of the left and right liver, and the spleen, and the thickness of the left liver, the width of portal trunk, were all out of normal ranges. The differences between the patients and normal records were significant. However, there were no statistically significant differences in terms of above-mentioned indices as well as liver parenchyma changes on ultrasound between advanced schistosomaiasis and schistosomiasis complicated with hepatitis or cirrhosis (all P>0.5). According to WHO classification criteria on ultrasonography for schistosomiasis, among 20 cases combined with hepatitis or cirrhosis, 11 cases fell in Grade II, and nine cases in Grade III hepatic fibrosis, whereas among 18 cases with schistosomiasis fibrosis, 12 and six were in Grade II and III, respectively. The mean value of serum MAO, PIIIP, IVC and HA in the 38 cases were all significantly higher than normal range. However, no significant differences (all P>0.1) were seen between advanced schistosomiasis and those complicated with hepatitis or cirrhosis in terms of the levels of the four indices. The results showed that ultrasonography has its importance in the diagnosis and evaluation of liver fibrosis. However, in differentiation of the two types of liver damage, ultrasound does not provide important information. Histopathological examination, on the other hand, can provide useful information to identify the hepatic diseases.