Successful treatment of severe hepatopulmonary syndrome with a sequential use of TIPS placement and liver transplantation. Hepatopulmonary syndrome (HPS) is a complication of portal hypertension (PH) defined by the presence of liver disease, abnormal pulmonary gas exchange and evidence of intrapulmonary vascular dilatations (IPVD) producing a right to left intrapulmonary shunt. Liver transplantation (LT) is the treatment of choice however, severe hypoxemia may contraindicate LT. The use of transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunts (TIPS) could be effective in HPS, although available data is limited.To report a clinical case of severe HPS treated sequentially with TIPS and LT.A 46 year old female cirrhotic patient presented with rapidly progressive dyspnea, hypoxemia (PaO2 60 mmHg, SaO2 92%) and increased alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient (A-a) (46 mmHg). She also had orthodeoxia (SaO2 87% in sitting position, but 91% in a prone position). A CT scan and pulmonary angiography were normal. Spirometric assessment showed a mild restrictive pattern and a desaturation was observed in a six-minute walking test. Contrast-enhanced echocardiography (CEE) showed intrapulmonary shunting. A HPS was diagnosed and liver transplantation was disregarded due to severe hypoxemia. The patient underwent TIPS placement. After four weeks, a significant improvement of dyspnea and a complete remission of orthodeoxia were seen. One year later, the patient was successfully transplanted. Interestingly, six months after LT, and in the absence of dyspnea, a new CEE showed persistent passing of bubbles to the left cavities.Persistent right-to-left shunt after TIPS placement and liver transplantation in spite of the improvement of pulmonary function tests suggests long-term persistence of structural changes in the pulmonary vascular tree after liver transplantation. Because of lack of data, it is not possible to recommend the routine use of TIPS as a part of the conventional management of HPS. However, in patients with severe hypoxemia TIPS placement can reasonably be used as a bridge towards transplantation.