Splenic artery embolization for the treatment of refractory ascites after liver transplantation. Refractory ascites (RA) is a challenging complication after orthotopic liver transplantation. Its treatment consists of the removal of the precipitating factors. When the etiology is unknown, supportive treatment can be attempted. In severe cases, transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunts, portocaval shunts, and liver retransplantation have been used with marginal results. Recently, splenic artery embolization (SAE) has been described as an effective procedure for reducing portal hyperperfusion in patients undergoing partial or whole liver transplantation. Here we describe our experience with SAE for the treatment of RA. Between June 2004 and June 2010, 6 patients underwent proximal SAE for RA. Intraoperative flow measurements, graft characteristics, embolization portal vein (PV) velocities before and after SAE, and spleen/liver volume ratios were collected and analyzed. The response to treatment was assessed with imaging (ultrasound/computed tomography) and on the basis of clinical outcomes (weight changes, diuretic requirements, and the time to ascites resolution). The PV velocity decreased significantly for each patient after the embolization (median = 66.5 cm/second before SAE and median = 27.5 cm/second after SAE, P < 0.01). All patients experienced a significant postprocedural weight loss (mean = 88.1 ± 28.4 kg before SAE and mean = 75.8 ± 28.4 kg after SAE, P < 0.01) and a dramatic decrease in their diuretic requirements. All but 1 of the patients experienced a complete resolution of ascites after a median time of 49.5 days (range = 12-295 days). No patient presented with postembolization complications. In conclusion, SAE was effective in reducing the PV velocity immediately after the procedure. Clinically, this translated into a dramatic weight loss, a reduction of diuretic use, and a resolution of ascites. SAE appears to be a safe and effective treatment for RA.