Upper abdominal cysts in first trimester fetuses. Cystic abdominal structures in first trimester fetuses are rare. In order to elucidate the clinical significance of first trimester abdominal cysts, we present three cases of the ultrasonographic detection of upper abdominal cysts in first trimester fetuses with spontaneous regression until birth. Cysts with maximum diameters of 20, 15 and 21 mm were diagnosed in the first scan at 12 + 3 weeks of gestation and two times at 13 + 0 weeks of gestation, respectively. They had echogenic walls, a longish shape and were all located in the upper part of the abdomen. Further anomalies, relevant maternal infections, the most frequent cystic fibrosis mutations and fetal chromosomal abnormalities were excluded. In all three cases follow-up scans showed similar characteristics: The relatively large intraabdominal cyst resolved during the early second trimester. A hyperdense structure of up to 24 mm close to the liver capsule was the sole prenatally detectable remnant. During the first months after birth, development of all three children was normal. Pediatric ultrasound examination reported subcapsular liver calcifications. In conclusion, these cases demonstrate that first trimester upper abdominal cysts with spontaneous resolution until birth are associated with a favorable outcome, if infections and additional anatomical or chromosomal anomalies are ruled out. Nevertheless, one should be aware that postnatal gastrointestinal complications have been described in a few cases, even if the cyst had resolved spontaneously in utero.Fetale intraabdominale Zysten werden im ersten Trimenon relativ selten diagnostiziert. Wir untersuchten 3 Fälle fetaler Oberbauchzysten mit Spontanresorption bis zum Zeitpunkt der Geburt im Hinblick auf ihre klinische Relevanz. Die fetalen intraabdominalen Zysten wurden im Rahmen des Ersttrimesterscreenings in der 12 + 3 bzw. 13 + 0 SSW entdeckt. Die länglich geformten Zysten mit echogenem Randsaum waren im Oberbauch lokalisiert und wiesen Maximaldurchmesser von 20, 15 und 21 mm auf. Begleitanomalien waren ultrasonografisch nicht nachweisbar. Karyotyp, Mukoviszidosediagnostik und Infektionsserologie (Toxoplasmose, CMV und Parvovirus-B19) waren unauffällig. Bei den Folgeuntersuchungen im zweiten Trimester konnte eine Resorption der initial relativ großen Zysten bis hin zu deren Kollaps beobachtet werden. Als Residuen zeigten sich stets bis maximal 24 mm messende echoreiche schollenartige Raumforderungen im Oberbauch an der Leberoberfläche und zum Teil an der ventralen Bauchwand, die bis zur Geburt nachweisbar waren. Im pädiatrischen Ultraschall war als Korrelat des intrauterinen Befunds eine Kalzifikation an der Leber darstellbar. Ein Kind wurde mit einer kleinen asymptomatischen Spina bifida occulta, die im Ultraschall nicht erkennbar war, geboren. Anhand der vorgestellten Fälle und vergleichbarer Kasuistiken in der Literatur kann man folgern, dass zystische Raumforderungen im Oberbauch, die im Rahmen des Ersttrimesterscreenings auffallen und sich bis zur Geburt zurückbilden, meistens eine benigne Prognose haben, wenn Infektionen, Chromosomenaberrationen und Begleitanomalien ausgeschlossen wurden. Allerdings sollte berücksichtigt werden, dass auch bei Spontanresorption der Zysten im Verlauf der Schwangerschaft gastrointestinale Komplikationen auftreten können.