Tissue Doppler imaging and tissue strain imaging for the evaluation of hepatic fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B. We studied the feasibility of evaluating the stages of liver fibrosis with tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) and tissue strain imaging (TSI) for patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection. One hundred ten patients were divided into two groups: normal adult group (n = 38) and chronic liver disease group (n = 72, patients infected with HBVs). The chronic liver disease group was divided into three subgroups on the basis of the Scheuer scoring system and clinical evidence: mild fibrosis (S0 and S1, n = 11), moderate fibrosis (S2 and S3, n = 27) and cirrhosis (S4 and clinically typical cirrhosis, n = 34) groups. TDI was performed for a chosen oblique section. Four regions of interest (ROIs), A-D, were chosen in the hepatic parenchyma based on the direction of propagation from the heart to the liver. Strain rate curves were obtained on the basis of TDI and TSI findings. Strain peak rates (SPRs) of all ROIs and the differences in times to SPRs for the four ROIs (TA-B, TB-C and TC-D) in the hepatic parenchyma were measured with TDI and TSI. Strain rate curves were analyzed for each ROI. The strain rate curves for the normal adult group were synchronous, whereas those for the chronic liver disease group were asynchronous. SPRs of the ROIs gradually decreased with the progression of liver fibrosis. The SPRs of ROI B significantly correlated with chronic liver disease severity (r = 0.991, p < 0.05). Areas under the curve (AUCs) of the ROI A and ROI B SPRs at the moderate fibrosis and cirrhosis stages were 0.86 ± 0.06, 0.81 ± 0.56 and 0.90 ± 0.65, 0.92 ± 0.04, respectively. The AUC of the SPRs of ROIs A and B correlated better than the platelet/age/phosphatase/α-fetoprotein/aspartate aminotransferase (PAPAS) index for advanced fibrosis. The differences in time to SPRs among the peaks of the four ROIs (TA-B, TB-C and TC-D) gradually increased with the progression of liver fibrosis. TDI and TSI with quantitative measurements using tissue Doppler analysis software (TDIQ, GE Medical Systems, Horten, Norway) provided reliable information for evaluating non-invasive liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis B. 