Bacterial peritonitis after elective endoscopic variceal ligation: a prospective study. Endoscopic variceal ligation is becoming the therapy of choice for esophageal varices, replacing endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy. The latter is associated with a 5-53% incidence of port-procedural bacteremia and a 0.5-3% incidence of peritonitis, whereas the former carries a 3-6% risk of bacteremia. However, the incidence of peritonitis after variceal ligation has not been well studied. This prospective study is designed to investigate the risk of developing bacteremia and bacterial peritonitis after elective endoscopic variceal ligation.Sixty-seven patients with esophageal varices and ascites secondary to liver cirrhosis underwent elective endoscopic variceal ligation. Before the procedure, ascitic fluid was drawn under ultrasound guidance and sent for cell counts, Gram stain, and cultures. Two to 4 days afterward, a repeat ascitic fluid sample was sent for the same studies whether or not the patient had symptoms or signs suggestive of infection. Blood cultures were drawn both immediately before and after the endoscopic ligation procedure.Of 67 subjects, 11 developed asymptomatic bacteremia with Gram-positive commensals. However, none of them progressed to peritonitis. Two patients who did not have bacteremia developed mild febrile peritonitis with Escherichia coli and were successfully treated with oral antibiotics. No other infectious complications were noted.There is a significant risk of asymptomatic bacteremia and bacterial peritonitis after elective variceal ligation. The peritonitis does not seem to be related to the bacteremia, as patients who had bacteremia did not develop peritonitis and vice versa. In addition, the involved organisms were quite different. Unlike the bacteremia, postligation peritonitis may be a consequence of severe liver cirrhosis rather than the procedure itself. The clinical significance of postligation bacteremia is doubtful. With regard to peritonitis, in our opinion the use of prophylactic antibiotics should be reserved for patients with Child's C class cirrhosis, a recent history of variceal bleeding, a past history of bacterial peritonitis, or a comorbid immunosuppressive condition.