Non-cirrhotic portal fibrosis (idiopathic portal hypertension): experience with 151 patients and a review of the literature. Non-cirrhotic portal fibrosis (NCPF), the equivalent of idiopathic portal hypertension in Japan and hepatoportal sclerosis in the United States of America, is a common cause of portal hypertension in India. The clinical features, portographic and histological findings, and management of 151 patients with non-cirrhotic portal fibrosis are presented.The disease is diagnosed by the presence of unequivocal evidence of portal hypertension in the definite absence of liver cirrhosis and extrahepatic portal vein obstruction (EHPVO). Retrospective analysis of records of 151 patients with NCPF was analyzed for the clinical presentation, physical findings, laboratory tests, radiological and histological findings, and for the outcome of treatment.The disease is characterized by massive splenomegaly with anemia, preserved liver function and benign prognosis in a majority of patients. Splenoportovenography (SPV) showed massive dilatation of the portal and splenic veins, and the presence of collaterals. Twenty-four (15.9%) patients showed evidence of natural/spontaneous shunts (splenorenal 15, umbilical nine) on SPV these patients had a lower incidence of variceal bleeding. Liver histology demonstrated maintained lobular architecture, portal fibrosis of variable degree, sclerosis and obliteration of small-sized portal vein radicles, and subcapsular scarring with the collapse of the underlying parenchyma. Piecemeal or hepatocytic necrosis was absent in all histology specimens. Three patients showed nodular transformation along with abnormal liver functions, and may represent late manifestation of NCPF where features are similar to those seen in patients with incomplete septal cirrhosis. In the initial part of the study, surgery (side-to-side lieno-renal shunt) was the preferred modality of treatment, however, endoscopic sclerotherapy or variceal ligation has now become the preferred first line of management of variceal bleeding.The epidemiological and clinical features of NCPF have more similarity to IPH than has previously been documented. The development of spontaneous shunts tends to protect these patients from variceal bleeding.