Human schistosomiasis mansoni: immune responses during acute and chronic phases of the infection. Schistosoma mansoni infection may occur either as an acute infection in individuals who have recently visited an endemic area, with no previous contact with the parasite, or as a lasting chronic disease, if not interrupted by specific chemotherapy. The acute phase is characterized by symptoms such as fever, cough, diarrhea, anorexia, and arthralgias in combination with leukocytosis and eosinophilia, and a high cellular immune response to schistosome antigens especially those from the parasite's eggs. In the chronic phase, most patients living in endemic areas are asymptomatic, and their immune responses to egg antigens are modulated. A few develop periportal fibrosis of the liver, which may result in the hepatosplenic form of the disease. The humoral response (IgG, IgM and IgE) in acute patients to egg and worm antigens does not differ from the chronic phase. However, a high level of IgG and IgM antibodies to KLH were detected in acute patients. Acute patients express a considerably higher in vitro cellular responsiveness than do chronic patients, especially to egg antigens. They present a mixed profile of Th1 and Th2 cytokines. Ultrasound examinations of endemic population reveal a high heterogeneity between the patients as regards the presence and intensity of periportal fibrosis. Most patients are asymptomatic and their immune responses to schistosoma egg antigens (SEA) are modulated. In contrast, a high percentage of patients with incipient fibrosis (early stage of hepatosplenic) responded strongly to SEA. Patients with advanced hepatosplenic disease were likely to be non-responders to SEA. Most of the chronic patients presented a Th2 profile with low production of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). The intensity of infection favors the production of interleukin (IL)-10. After adjusting for age, sex, and intensity of infection, a strong correlation was observed between the production of IL-13 and the degree of fibrosis. Chronic asymptomatic patients and those with incipient fibrosis expressed very high levels of heterogeneity of their antibody responses. IgG response to soluble worm antigen preparation (SWAP) was distinct and significantly higher in hepatosplenic patients than in those asymptomatic or with incipient fibrosis. Levels of IgG4 to SEA were significantly higher in sera from patients with incipient fibrosis as compared to uninfected and hepatosplenic groups. Polyclonal idiotypic antibodies and their fragments F(ab')2, directly stimulate in culture T cells of schistosomiasis patients in presence of IL-1. Polyclonal idiotypic antibodies are able to modulate in vitro granuloma formation around SEA-polyacrylamide. The importance of idiotypes for protection or pathology in schistosomiasis is still not clear.