Surgical treatment of hepatoma on a cirrhotic liver. From January 1, 1975 to July 1, 1984, 37 patients with a tentative diagnosis of hepatocarcinoma on cirrhosis were operated upon. There were 34 men and 3 women, aged from 32 to 82 years (mean: 60 years). The diagnosis of cirrhosis rested either on a history of liver failure associated with clinical and biochemical signs of hepatocellular dysfunction (4 cases), or on a positive liver biopsy (5 cases). In 20 cases the diagnosis was suspected on account of abnormal liver function tests, but in 8 patients it was revealed by macroscopic examination of the liver during surgery. Cirrhosis was attributed to chronic alcoholism in 25 cases, haemochromatosis in 11 cases and positive HBs antigen in 7 cases. The diagnosis of hepatocarcinoma, suggested by altered general condition or recent pain, rested on the finding of a tumoral image at scintigraphy (16 cases), ultrasonography (19 cases), computed tomography (7 cases), arteriography (17 cases) or laparoscopy (7 cases). In only 7/32 patients was the alpha-foetoprotein level higher than 500 ng/l. Surgery confirmed the diagnosis of hepatocarcinoma in every case but that of cirrhosis in only 14/37 cases 10 patients had lesion of hepatic fibrosis and 1 had regenerative nodular hyperplasia. In 10 cases no accurate histological diagnosis could be made since the liver tissue sample had been taken too close to the tumour. The finding of normal liver tissue shows that one should not refrain from operating merely because the diagnosis of cirrhosis rests on clinical grounds. Since 1979, surgical treatment consists in an attempt to excise the tumour. Per-operative mortality is the same with excision surgery (21%) as with exploratory or palliative surgery (17%). Fourteen excisions were performed (i.e. aresectability rate of 38% for the series): 2 liver transplantations, 2 right hepatectomies, 2 left hepatectomies, 2 left lobectomies, 2 bisegmentectomies and 3 tumorectomies. The survival rate of 2 years was 27%, as opposed to 5% with exploratory or palliative surgery. Systematic monitoring of cirrhosis with ultrasonography should result in early diagnosis of hepatocarcinoma at a stage where limited hepatic excision is possible and the chances of surviving are highest.