Portal and splanchnic haemodynamics in patients with advanced post-hepatitic cirrhosis and in healthy adults. Assessment with duplex Doppler ultrasound. To assess portal and splanchnic haemodynamics, and splanchnic vascular resistance in patients with advanced post-hepatitic cirrhosis and in healthy volunteers, by means of duplex Doppler ultrasound (US).The duplex Doppler US examination was performed in 16 patients with cirrhosis and in 24 healthy volunteers. We investigated vessel diameters, mean flow velocities, and mean blood flows in the portal vein, the superior mesenteric artery (SMA), and the splenic artery (SA), and measured the resistive index values of SMA and SA.The mean portal venous blood flow in patients with cirrhosis (829 +/- 264 ml/min) was not statistically different from those in the volunteers (734 +/- 194 ml/min). The ratio of the SMA and SA blood flows (621 ml/min) to the portal venous blood flow (734 ml/min) was 0.85 in the control subjects. The mean portal venous blood flow (1261 ml/min) and the portal venous velocity (14.6 cm/s) were higher in the patients with recanalized para-umbilical veins than in the volunteers and in the patients without recanalized para-umbilical veins. The SMA and SA blood flows were significantly increased in patients with cirrhosis compared with volunteers. Splanchnic inflow (the sum of the SMA and SA blood flows) was higher than the portal blood flow in patients with cirrhosis except in the subjects with recanalized para-umbilical veins. SMA and SA resistive index values were significantly higher in these patients than in the volunteers.Splanchnic blood flow and splanchnic vascular impedance increased significantly in patients with advanced post-hepatitic cirrhosis. Splanchnic inflow must not exceed portal venous blood flow in patients with recanalized para-umbilical veins. Portal vein velocity and portal venous blood flow measurements alone are not useful parameters for discriminating patients with cirrhosis from healthy subjects.