Influence of methodology on the presence and extent of mismatching between 99mTc-MIBI and 123I-BMIPP in myocardial viability studies. Discordant uptake (mismatching) of 123I-labeled beta-methyl-piodophenyl-pentadecanoic acid (BMIPP) less than 99mTc-labeled methoxyisobutyl isonitrile (MIBI) is a good predictor of myocardial viability. However, methodological factors can influence assessment of the presence of mismatching because of differences in background activity between the tracers. In this study, we investigated the influence of methodological parameters on the mismatching between BMIPP and MIBI in patients with chronic ischemic heart disease.Polar maps were created to quantify the extent of mismatched tissue measured in 10 patients with myocardial infarction according to three methods for data processing: no correction, subtraction of background activity measured in the left ventricle cavity and dual-window scatter correction. Mismatching was expressed as a percentage of the surface of the left ventricle globally as well as for each arterial territory using a BMIPP uptake of at least 10% less than MIBI as the threshold. The results of dobutamine stress echocardiography and the evolution of the regional contractility at 6-mo follow-up were used as references.Mean background activity in the ventricle cavity was 9.3% of the maximum activity for MIBI and 21.4% for BMIPP before, and 2.8% and 8.3% after scatter correction. Fourteen arterial vascular territories demonstrated baseline wall-motion abnormalities 9 territories showed contractile reserve with dobutamine stress echocardiography. Significant mismatching was found in 5 of 14 regions without correction, 9 of 14 after scatter correction and 13 of 14 after background subtraction. Compared with the evolution of resting regional contractility at follow-up, optimal results were found when using the scatter-corrected data. Without correction, mismatching between BMIPP and MIBI was partially disguised because of the higher noise level in the iodine images. On the contrary, subtraction of background measured by means of a single region of interest overestimated the magnitude of mismatching due to the heterogeneous background distribution in the ventricular cavity.In quantifying the presence and extent of mismatching between MIBI and BMIPP in chronic ischemic heart disease, significant differences in the detection of viability are noted according to the acquisition and processing methods used. Scatter correction of the acquisition data is the most accurate and reliable method for identifying viable myocardium.