The role of surface physicochemical properties in determining the distribution of the autochthonous microflora in mineral water bottles. Investigation of the distribution of the viable autochthonous microflora in three brands of 1-2-month-old bottled mineral water showed that 1.8 x 10(4) (S.E.M. 8.9 x 10(3), n = 5) to 1.2 x 10(5) (S.E.M. 1.3 x 10(4), n = 5) cfu ml-1 were planktonic cells while 11 (S.E.M. 4, n = 5)-632 (S.E.M. 176, n = 5) cfu cm-2 were found in the biofilm. The biofilm represented between 0.03 and 1.79% of the total viable microbial population in the 1.5 litre bottles studied. Scanning electron microscopy studies showed that the cells adhering to the polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles were predominantly rod-shaped, sparsely distributed over the surface. In contrast, the cells adhering to the high density polyethylene (HDPE) caps were found to be mainly clumps of coccoid cells, suggesting that the bottle may provide different microhabitats for different microfloras. Large-scale roughness, such as that observed as lettering inside the cap (average height (z) = 93 microns) was associated with a 46-fold increase in cell numbers. Increased small-scale roughness, as measured by atomic force microscopy on PET and HDPE surfaces (average roughness (Ra) = 5-551 (nm), showed no correlation with adhesion. Investigations of surface hydrophobicity by the sessile drop technique showed that contact angles (theta) were greater on the HDPE caps (theta = 89-96 degrees) than on the PET surfaces (theta = 69-80 degrees). However, no correlation was found between contact angle and attached cell numbers. Measurements of surface electrostatic charge by streaming potential showed that the PET carried an overall negative charge, measuring -15.9 to -16.6 mV in mineral water. No significant change in charge occurred when the monomer composition of the PET was altered. It was concluded that surface roughness, in particular the scale of surface topographical features, is the most important physicochemical surface characteristic determining the distribution of the autochthonous microflora in mineral water bottles.