Relationship among house-dust mites, Der 1, Fel d 1, and Can f 1 on clothing and automobile seats with respect to densities in houses. Locations where there are no dust mites or pets present may contain allergens that pose a risk factor for sensitizing and inducing rhinitis and asthma.The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship among the prevalence of mites and mite, dog, and cat allergens in homes, on clothing, and on automobile seats.Over a 2-year period (July 1998 to July 2000), dust mite and mite, dog, and cat allergen densities were determined in homes, associated automobiles, and on the clothing of the drivers. During this period 87 homes were sampled one to five times each.Low levels of live and dead mites were present in most dust samples obtained from automobile seats and in 16% from clothing. Seventy-two and 50% of the home samples had >2 microg and >10 microg Der l/g of dust, respectively, whereas 23% of automobiles seat samples had >2 microg Der l/g of dust with a mean of 1.3 microg/g. Mite and Der 1 densities were not different for homes with or without pets. However, homes with pets had significantly more Fel d 1 or Can f 1 allergen than homes without pets. Homes without cats and dogs had an average of 93 and 29 microg/g of Fel d 1 and Can f 1, respectively, which was well above threshold levels for sensitization and induction of allergic reactions. Although most clothing had detectable levels of pet allergen, the levels of these allergens were low.Der 1 densities in some automobiles were sufficiently high (>2 microg/g of dust) to be risk factors for sensitization and allergic reactions. However, most automobile seats had levels of dog and cat allergen that were well above the threshold levels considered to be risk factors for both sensitization and symptoms, regardless of the presence of a pet in the home. The presence of live and dead mites and mite, cat, and dog allergens in automobiles and on clothing suggests that both are vehicles in the dispersal of mites and mite and pet allergen.