System characteristics of SPECT with a slat collimated strip detector. In classical SPECT with parallel hole collimation, the sensitivity is constant over the field of view (FOV). This is no longer the case if a rotating slat collimator with planar photon collection is used: there will be a significant variation of the sensitivity within the FOV. Since not compensating for this inhomogeneous sensitivity distribution would result in non-quantitative images, an accurate knowledge of the sensitivity is mandatory to account for it during reconstruction. On the other hand, the spatial resolution versus distance dependency remains unaltered compared to parallel hole collimation. For deriving the sensitivity, different factors have to be taken into account: a first factor concerns the intrinsic detector properties and will be incorporated into the calculations as a detection efficiency term depending on the incident angle. The calculations are based on a second and more pronounced factor: the collimator and detector geometry. Several assumptions will be made for the calculation of the sensitivity formulae and it will be proven that these calculations deliver a valid prediction of the sensitivity at points far enough from the collimator. To derive a close field model which also accounts for points close to the collimator surface, a modified calculation method is used. After calculating the sensitivity in one plane it is easy to obtain the tomographic sensitivity. This is done by rotating the sensitivity maps for spin and camera rotation. The results derived from the calculations are then compared to simulation results and both show good agreement after including the aforementioned detection efficiency term. The validity of the calculations is also proven by measuring the sensitivity in the FOV of a prototype rotating slat gamma camera. An expression for the resolution of these planar collimation systems is obtained. It is shown that for equal collimator dimensions the same resolution-distance relationship is obtained as for parallel hole collimators. Although, a better spatial resolution can be obtained with our prototype camera due to the smaller pitch of the slats. This can be achieved without a major drop in system sensitivity due to the fact that the slats consist of less collimator material compared to a parallel hole collimator. The accuracy of the calculated resolution is proven by comparison with Monte Carlo simulation and measurement resolution values.