Beating myocardial cross sections and polar maps techniques in assessment of myocardial perfusion disturbances with gated single photon emission tomography. In modern world the risk of circulatory system diseases is increasing. Effective techniques are sought of prevention and detection of coronary artery disease. The development of diagnostic modalites is directed to reduction of invasiveness and risk for patients with providing as much information from a single examination, as possible. Gated scintigraphy examinations by single photon emission method (GSPET) seem to meet these requirements. They combine information that could be obtained as yet only with two separated examinations. They provide data on left ventricular perfusion and function.The aim of the study was application of gated single photon emission tomography (GSPET) technique by means of polar maps and beating cross-sections in the assessment of parameters describing left ventricular function in various degrees of myocardial perfusion disturbances. A comparison was also done of GSPET processing by polar map and beating cross-section methods in the diagnosis of perfusion disturbances.The study group included 142 patients (mean age 55.8 +/- 10.9 years), in whom myocardial scintigraphic examination was carried out by GSPET method using Tc99m-MIBI complex according to two-day protocol. The examinations were performed using a two-head Varicam gamma camera. For study data processing Xpert Pro software for workstation was used. The examinations were analysed using both polar maps and beating cross-sections. Additional values were considered offered by gated GSPET examinations. In all, 284 examinations were analysed. The patients were divided into groups according to gender and changes in perfusion both in the maps and cross-sections.The total number of 112 consistent results of perfusion changes were obtained both in the polar maps and cross-sections (71%). Most differences were observed in the group with effort perfusion disturbances. During processing of GSPET examination by the method of polar maps were obtained more reversible perfusion disturbances then in the beating cross-sections, differences were found which required further studies and comparison with clinical data.On the basis of the obtained results the conclusions were drawn that processing of gated single photon emission tomography (GSPET) by methods of both polar maps and mobile cross-sections makes possible to assess the parameters describing left ventricular function at rest and during exercise in various degrees of myocardial perfusion disturbances.