Catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardias in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy: validation of voltage mapping criteria for substrate modification by myocardial viability assessment using FDG PET. Catheter ablation is of growing importance in patients with an ischemic cardiomyopathy and recurrent episodes of ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Most ablation strategies in these patients are based on the detection of areas of scar and border zones to normal myocardium. However, the mapping criteria for identifying these areas have not been validated sufficiently so far. Therefore, we have performed a comparison between electroanatomical bipolar voltage maps obtained during substrate-based VT ablation procedures and [18 F]fluoro-2-deoxyglucose PET studies performed prior to these procedures.Seven patients suffering from severe coronary artery disease and repetitive ventricular tachycardias were enrolled in this study. In all patients, there was a history of myocardial infarction and the left ventricular function was severely impaired. A FDG PET was performed at least 1 day prior to the ablation procedure in all patients. Then, a substrate-based VT ablation procedure was performed using the CARTO system (Biosense Webster, Diamond Bar, CA, USA). Finally, the FDG PET images and the bipolar voltage maps were compared in all patients.The ablation procedures could be performed successfully in all patients and 1-5 monomorphic VTs could be eliminated in each patient. There were no major complications. At 1-year follow-up, five out of seven patients (71.4%) remained free from any arrhythmia recurrence. In all patients, there were extensive areas of scar and adjacent low-voltage areas could be identified in the CARTO bipolar voltage maps. In areas commonly defined as "dense scar" (bipolar voltage amplitude <0.5 mV), the mean FDG uptake was 43.1% (SD ±18.2%) indicating predominantly scar tissue. In the so-called low-voltage border zones the mean FDG uptake ranged between 49.5% [(SD ±15.8%) >0.5-1 mV] and 60.1% [(SD ±14.8%)The results of our study demonstrate that there is a significant amount of viable myocardium in the low-voltage border zones of scars frequently targeted as ablation sites. Therefore, RF current delivery in these areas should be restricted to the minimum assumed to be necessary for successful catheter ablation because extensive RF applications might result in a further deterioration of the left ventricular function. Larger studies are needed to validate our results and to develop more reliable criteria for distinguishing areas of scar from viable myocardium in CARTO bipolar voltage maps.