Absolute organ activity estimated by five different methods of background correction. Accurate absorbed dose estimates in radionuclide therapy require patient-specific dosimetry. In patient-based dosimetry, estimation of absolute organ uptake is essential. The methods used should be reasonably accurate as well as easy to perform in routine clinical practice. One of the major sources of uncertainty in quantification of organ or tumor activity from planar images is the activity present in the tissue surrounding the source.To estimate organ activity as a function of organ-to-background activity concentration ratio, a cylindrical phantom, filled with 5.6 liters of water was used to simulate the abdomen of a patient. Two other cylinders of 150 ml each, representing the kidneys, were each filled with 19 MBq 99mTC and were positioned in the abdomen phantom. The phantom was imaged with a dual-head gamma camera with the kidneys placed at posterior depths of 1-, 5- and 10-cm at kidney-to-background activity concentration ratios of infinity, 10:1, 5:1 and 2:1. The conjugate view geometric mean counting method was used to quantify activity. Five methods for background correction were applied: (1) no correction (2) conventional background correction (simple subtraction of the background counting rate from the source region counting rate)Since the results were identical for both kidneys, only the left kidney activity measurements are presented. The accuracy of the five background correction methods is given as the percentage difference between the actual and measured activity in the left kidney. For Method 1, the percentage difference ranged from 2% with an infinite kidney-to-background activity concentration ratio to +413% with a 2:1 ratio. For Method 2, these values ranged from -1% to -80%, for Method 3 from +11% to -18%, for Method 4 from -2% to +120% and for Method 5 from -4% to +39%.Even though quantitative SPECT is the most rigorous method for activity quantification in conditions of low organ-to-background activity concentration ratio, planar scintigraphy can be applied accurately if appropriate attention is paid to background correction. Using relatively simple background subtraction methods, the quantitative planar imaging technique can result in reasonably accurate activity estimates (Methods 3 and 5). The use of Kojima's method is preferable, especially at very low source-to-background activity concentration ratios.