Simulation study of brain blood flow regulation by intra-cortical arterioles in an anatomically accurate large human vascular network: Part I: methodology and baseline flow. Hemodynamically based functional neuroimaging techniques, such as BOLD fMRI and PET, provide indirect measures of neuronal activity. The quantitative relationship between neuronal activity and the measured signals is not yet precisely known, with uncertainties remaining about the relative contribution by their metabolic and hemodynamic components. Empirical observations have demonstrated the importance of the latter component and suggested that micro-vascular anatomy has a potential influence. The recent development of a 3D computer-assisted method for micro-vascular cerebral network analysis has produced a large quantitative library on the microcirculation of the human cerebral cortex (Cassot et al., 2006), which can be used to investigate the hemodynamic component of brain activation through fluid dynamic modeling. For this purpose, we perform the first simulations of blood flow in an anatomically accurate large human intra-cortical vascular network (~10000 segments), using a 1D non-linear model taking account of the complex rheological properties of blood flow in microcirculation. This model predicts blood pressure, blood flow and hematocrit distributions, as well as volumes of functional vascular territories, and regional flow at voxel and network scales. First, the influence of the prescribed boundary conditions (BCs) on the baseline flow structure is investigated, highlighting relevant lower- and upper-bound BCs. Independent of these BCs, large heterogeneities of baseline flow from vessel to vessel and from voxel to voxel, are demonstrated. These heterogeneities are controlled by the architecture of the intra-cortical vascular network. In particular, a correlation between the blood flow and the proportion of vascular volume occupied by arterioles or venules, at voxel scale, is highlighted. Then, the extent of venous contamination downstream to the sites of neuronal activation is investigated, demonstrating a linear relationship between the catchment surface of the activated area and the diameter of the intra-cortical draining vein.