PET studies of changes in cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism after unilateral microembolization of the brain in anesthetized dogs. Cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism have been measured with the steady-state oxygen-15 technique and positron emission tomography in anesthetized dogs. Regional microembolization was induced by infusing Sephadex particles (diameter, 40 micron) into one of the common carotid arteries. In the first series of experiments, 2.5 mg Sephadex was infused, and the dogs were examined within 3-4 hours after embolization. In a second series 0.55 mg Sephadex was infused, and the dogs were examined either in the first 3-4 hours or 24-48 hours after embolization. Cerebral blood flow, oxygen extraction ratio, and cerebral oxygen utilization were measured at 3 PCO2 levels. In the acute experiments, cerebral oxygen utilization in the embolized hemisphere was 6 (0.55 mg Sephadex) and 25% (2.5 mg Sephadex) lower than on the contralateral side. While cerebral blood flow was symmetrically distributed in normocapnia and hypocapnia, it was 9 (0.55 mg Sephadex) and 35% (2.5 mg Sephadex) lower in the embolized hemisphere during hypercapnia. In normocapnia and hypocapnia the lower oxygen utilization in the embolized hemisphere was characterized by a lower oxygen extraction ratio, and in hypercapnia by an unchanged (0.55 mg Sephadex) or by a higher (2.5 mg Sephadex) extraction ratio. The different effect on oxygen extraction ratio in the control and embolized hemispheres resulted in images of uncoupling between perfusion and oxygen demand that varied according to the PCO2. The experiments also showed a fall in cerebral blood flow in the embolized hemisphere after 3-4 hours, indicating delayed hypoperfusion. After 24-48 hours, blood flow was about 10% higher in the embolized hemisphere, and this was observed at the 3 PCO2 levels, while the oxygen extraction ratio was systematically lower. Oxygen utilization in the embolized hemisphere was depressed to practically the same extent as in acute experiments. It can be concluded that between 4 and 24 hours after microembolization the cerebral microcirculation shows important changes, with installation of luxury perfusion in the face of an unchanging decreased oxygen metabolism.