<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2020-04-30</DATELINE><TITLE>First report of two consecutive respiratory syncytial virus outbreaks by the novel genotypes ON‐1 and NA‐2 in a neonatal intensive care unit</TITLE><BODY>Abstract Objective Respiratory syncytial virus is a pathogen frequently involved in nosocomial outbreaks. Although several studies have reported nosocomial outbreaks in neonatal intensive care units, molecular epidemiology data are scarce. Here, the authors describe two consecutive respiratory syncytial virus outbreaks caused by genotypes ON‐1 and NA‐2 in a neonatal intensive care unit in São Paulo, Brazil. Methods A prospective search for respiratory syncytial virus was performed after diagnosing the index case and four other symptomatic newborns in the neonatal intensive care unit. Nasopharyngeal aspirate samples of all patients in the neonatal intensive care unit were tested for 17 respiratory viruses using real‐time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Genotyping was performed using nucleotide sequencing. Results From May to August 2013, two different outbreaks were detected in the neonatal intensive care unit. A total of 20 infants were infected with respiratory syncytial virus‐A (ten and 14 with ON‐1 and NA‐2 genotypes, respectively). The mean age of the infants was 10 days, mean birth weight was 1,961g, and the mean gestational age was 33 weeks. Risk factors (heart disease, lung disease, and prematurity) were present in 80% and 85.7% of infants in the ON‐1 and NA‐2 groups, respectively. In total, 45.8% of infants were asymptomatic and 20.8% required mechanical ventilation. Coinfections were not detected during the outbreaks. Conclusions Infants in a neonatal intensive care unit who develop abrupt respiratory symptoms should be tested for respiratory viruses, especially respiratory syncytial virus. Even in the absence of severe symptoms, respiratory syncytial virus detection can prevent nosocomial transmission through infection control measures. A better understanding of respiratory syncytial virus molecular epidemiology is essential for developing new vaccines and antiviral drugs against respiratory syncytial virus. Resumo Objetivo O vírus sincicial respiratório é um patógeno frequentemente envolvido em surtos nosocomiais. Embora vários estudos tenham relatado tais surtos em unidades de terapia intensiva neonatal, os dados epidemiológicos moleculares são escassos. Neste artigo, descrevemos dois surtos consecutivos de vírus sincicial respiratório causados pelos genótipos ON‐1 e NA‐2 em uma unidade de terapia intensiva neonatal em São Paulo, Brasil. Métodos Uma busca prospectiva por vírus sincicial respiratório foi realizada após o diagnóstico do caso índice e outros quatro recém‐nascidos sintomáticos na unidade de terapia intensiva neonatal. Amostras de aspirado nasofaríngeo de todos os pacientes da unidade de terapia intensiva neonatal foram testadas para 17 vírus respiratórios com reação em cadeia da polimerase via transcriptase reversa em tempo real. A genotipagem realizada utilizando sequenciamento de nucleotídeos. Resultados De maio a agosto de 2013, foram detectados dois surtos diferentes na unidade de terapia intensiva neonatal. Vinte e quatro crianças foram infectadas com vírus sincicial respiratório‐A (10 e 14 com os genótipos ON‐1 e NA‐2, respectivamente). A média da idade dos lactentes era de 10 dias, o peso médio ao nascer foi de 1961g e a idade gestacional média de 33 semanas. Fatores de risco (doença cardíaca, doença pulmonar e prematuridade) estavam presentes em 80% e 85,7% dos bebês nos grupos ON‐1 e NA‐2, respectivamente. No total, 45,8% dos lactentes eram assintomáticos e 20,8% necessitaram de ventilação mecânica. Não foram detectadas coinfecções durante os surtos. Conclusões Bebês em unidade de terapia intensiva neonatal que desenvolvem sintomas respiratórios abruptos devem ser testados para vírus respiratórios, especialmente o vírus sincicial respiratório. Mesmo na ausência de sintomas graves, a detecção de vírus sincicial respiratório pode prevenir a transmissão nosocomial através de medidas de controle de infecção. Um melhor entendimento da epidemiologia molecular do vírus sincicial respiratório é essencial para o desenvolvimento de novas vacinas e drogas antivirais contra o vírus sincicial respiratório.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>