<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-01-11</DATELINE><TITLE>An Analysis of Demographic and Behavior Trends Using Social Media: Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram</TITLE><BODY>Personality and character have major effects on certain behavioral outcomes. As advancements in technology occur, more people these days are using social media such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Due to the increase in social media's popularity, the types of behaviors are now easier to group and study as this is important to know the behavior of users via social networking in order to analyze similarities of certain behavior types and this can be used to predict what they post as well as what they comment, share, and like on social networking sites. However, very few review studies have undertaken grouping according to similarities and differences to predict the personality and behavior of individuals with the help of social networking sites such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Therefore, the purpose of this research is to collect data from previous researches and to analyze the methods they have used. This chapter reviewed 30 research studies on the topic of behavioral analysis using the social media from 2015 to 2017. This research is based on the method of previous publications and analyzed the results, limitations, and number of users to draw conclusions. Our results indicated that the percentage of completed research on the Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram show that 50% of the studies were done on Twitter, 27% on Facebook, and 23% on Instagram. Twitter seems to be more popular and recent than the other two spheres as there are more studies on it. Further, we extracted the studies based on the year and graphs in 2015 which indicated that more research has been done on Facebook to analyze the behavior of users and the trends are decreasing in the following year. However, more studies have been done on Twitter in 2016 than any other social media. The results also show the classifications based on different methods to analyze individual behavior. However, most of the studies have been done on Twitter, as it is more popular and newer than Facebook and Instagram particularly from 2015 to 2017, and more research needs to be done on other social media spheres in order to analyze the trending behaviors of users. This study should be useful to obtain knowledge about the methods used to analyze user behavior with description, limitations, and results. Although some researchers collect demographic information on users’ gender on Facebook, others on Twitter do not. This lack of demographic data, which is typically available in more traditional sources such as surveys, has created a new focus on developing methods to work out these traits as a means of expanding Big Data research.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>