Involvement of cyclooxygenase-derived prostaglandin E2 and nitric oxide in the protection of rat pancreas afforded by low dose of lipopolysaccharide. Prostaglandins (PG), the products of arachidonate metabolism through cyclooxygenase (COX) pathway, protect the pancreas from the acute damage. The existence of two isoforms of COX was documented including: COX-1, present in normal tissues and COX-2, expressed at the site of inflammation, such as induced by bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Pretreatment with low dose of LPS and activation of nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS) has been shown to prevent the injury caused by caerulein-induced pancreatitis (CIP) in the rat. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of COX-1 and COX-2 in the LPS-induced protection of the pancreas against CIP and the involvement of NOS in the activation of COX-PG system in the rats with CIP. CIP was produced by subcutaneous (s.c.) infusion of caerulein (5 microg/kg-h for 5 h) to the conscious rats. Protective dose of LPS, from Escherichia coli, (1 mg/kg) was given intraperitoneally (i.p.) 15 min prior to the start of CIP. Nonselective inhibitor of COX indomethacin (5 or 10 mg/kg), selective inhibitor of COX-1: resveratrol, or a highly selective inhibitors of COX-2: rofecoxib or NS-398 (2 or 10 mg/kg) were injected i.p. 15 min prior to the administration of LPS. COX-1 or COX-2 mRNA was determined by reverse transcription-polimerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in the pancreatic tissue. Pancreatic blood flow (PBF) was measured by a laser Doppler flowmetry. PGE2 content in the pancreas was measured by radioimmunoassay. CIP was manifested by an increase of pancreatic weight and plasma amylase activity (by 500% and 700%, respectively) and it was confirmed by histological examination. CIP slightly increased pancreatic PGE2 generation (by 12%) and diminished PBF (by about 40%). LPS (1 mg/kg i.p.), given prior to the start of CIP, increased PGE2 generation in the pancreas (by 45%), reversed the histological manifestations of pancreatitis, reduced the rise in amylase blood level and improved PBF. Administration of nonselective inhibitor of COX