Activation of circulating platelets and platelet response to activating agents in children with cyanotic congenital heart disease: their relevance to palliative systemic-pulmonary shunt. Abnormal platelet function has been hypothesised to play a role in the haemostatic abnormalities in cyanotic congenital heart disease (CCHD) patients. Using whole blood flow cytometry we found that platelets from cyanotic patients were hyperreactive and we related such hyperreactivity directly to young age, unoperated state, high haematocrit, reduced saturation with oxygen and low platelet count. Circulating platelets from CCHD children showed significantly enhanced P-selectin expression (P<0.004) and remained more reactive to 0.2 IU/ml thrombin, 1-8 microM TRAP and 2-4 microM ADP (P<0.04), especially in younger (0-3-year-olds) patients. Such a platelet 'priming' largely concerned CCHD children who were not subjected to modified Blalock-Taussig shunts in the past (non-MBTS). Only non-MBTS cyanotic children, but not MBTS-operated patients, showed significantly higher platelet reactivity compared to controls in response to ADP or 1 microM TRAP with respect to P-selectin expression (p<0.05) and in response to all examined agonists with respect to GPIb expression (P<0.045). The enhanced P-selection expression in MBTS-operated CCHD children and reduced GPIb expression in non-MBTS patients, especially in younger patients, were positively associated with the occurrence of the polymorphic variant Pl(A2) of platelet membrane glycoprotein IIIa gene. Altered blood morphology parameters (elevated RBC, Hb, Hct and MCHC, for all P<0.0005) in CCHD children correlated with the enhanced degranulation of circulating blood platelets and their hyperreactivity in response to some agonists (P<0.05). Overall, our data encourage the reasoning that circulating platelets are remarkably hyperreactive in non-MBTS cyanotic children, which are at higher risk to often encounter platelets activation in circulation. It seems unlikely that the apparently unchanged platelet reactivity in MBTS-operated children is due to the advantageous effects of the shunt, since these patients showed neither altered haematological parameters nor improved oxygen carrying capacity. Otherwise, it may rather result from more frequent episodes of platelet degranulation and preactivation in the past, and/or post-operative enhanced platelet consumption.