Hemodynamic status after the Norwood procedure: a comparison of right ventricle-to-pulmonary artery connection versus modified Blalock-Taussig shunt. The aim of this study is to compare hemodynamic status, in particular systemic oxygen delivery, in patients undergoing a Norwood procedure with a right ventricle-to-pulmonary artery (RV-PA) versus a modified Blalock-Taussig (mBT) shunt.From June 2000 to November 2003, 44 consecutive neonates with hypoplastic left heart syndrome underwent a Norwood procedure. The first 25 patients received an mBT shunt the subsequent 19 an RV-PA shunt. Hemodynamic data, including mixed venous oxygen saturation, was determined during the first 48 hours after surgery.The mBT and RV-PA shunt patients had no significant differences in systemic oxygen saturation, mixed venous oxygen saturation, arteriovenous oxygen saturation difference, or oxygen excess factor during the first 48 hours. Mixed venous saturation declined to a nadir in both groups at 6 to 12 hours. The RV-PA patients had significantly higher diastolic and mean blood pressures, and lower systolic blood pressure. Mean heart rate, common atrial pressure, and inotrope score did not differ between the two groups. The RV-PA patients received higher fraction of inspired oxygen and minute ventilation to achieve partial pressures of arterial oxygen and carbon dioxide, and pH, similar to mBT patients. Durations of mechanical ventilation, intensive care unit stay, and hospital stay did not differ between mBT and RV-PA patients. Operative survival in the mBT versus RV-PA group was 20 of 25 (80%) versus 17 of 19 (89% p = 0.7).Indicators of postoperative systemic oxygen delivery are equivalent in neonates who have undergone a Norwood procedure with an mBT or RV-PA shunt. Both mBT and RV-PA patients undergo similar declines in hemodynamic status 6 to 12 hours after surgery. Any advantages of one approach over the other lie in areas other than systemic oxygen delivery, such as resistance to physiologic insults, or preservation of ventricular function.