Ultrastructural clues for the protective effect of melatonin against oxidative damage in cerulein-induced pancreatitis. The role of oxidative stress has been evaluated in experimental models of acute pancreatitis (AP). The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of melatonin on the ultrastructural changes in cerulein-induced AP in rats. Acute pancreatitis was induced by two i.p. injections of cerulein at 2-hr intervals (50 microg/kg BW). One group received additionally melatonin (20 mg/kg BW) i.p. before each injection of cerulein. The rats were sacrificed 12 hr after the last injection. Pancreatic oxidative stress markers were evaluated by changes in the amount of lipid peroxides and changes in the antioxidant enzyme levels, superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and total glutathione (GSH) levels. Ultrastructural examination was performed using a transmission electron microscope. Formation of numerous, large autophagosomes, mitochondrial damage, dilatation of rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) and Golgi apparatus, margination and clumping of nuclear chromatin were the major ultrastructural alterations observed in the AP group. Melatonin administration prevented mitochondrial and nuclear changes and dilatation of RER and Golgi apparatus. Rare, small autophagosomes were present within the cytoplasm of some of the acinar cells. Pancreatic damage was accompanied by a significant increase in tissue MDA levels (P < 0.05) and a significant decrease in CAT, SOD, GPx activities and GSH levels (P < 0.005). Melatonin administration significantly reduced MDA levels but increased CAT, SOD, GPx activities and GSH levels (P < 0.005). Melatonin also reduced serum amylase and lipase activities, which were significantly elevated in AP (P < 0.05 and P < 0.005 respectively). These results suggest that oxidative injury is important in the pathogenesis of AP. Melatonin is potentially capable of limiting pancreatic damage produced during AP by protecting the fine structure of acinar cells and tissue antioxidant enzyme activities.