Ischemic preconditioning of the hindlimb or kidney does not attenuate the severity of acute ischemia/reperfusion-induced pancreatitis in rats. Ischemic preconditioning of several organs, including the pancreas has been shown to protect these organs from injury evoked by subsequent exposure to severe ischemia followed by reperfusion. Moreover, it has been shown that ischemic preconditioning of distant organs such as the kidney, intestine or limb may protect the heart as effectively as cardiac preconditioning itself. This study was designed to determine whether ischemic preconditioning of the kidney or hindlimb protects the pancreas against ischemia/reperfusion-induced pancreatitis.In male Wistar rats, remote ischemic preconditioning of the pancreas was performed by clamping of right femoral or renal artery twice for 5 min with 5 min interval. Direct ischemic preconditioning was performed by clamping of celiac artery. Thirty min after ischemic preconditioning or sham-operation, acute pancreatitis was induced by clamping of inferior splenic artery for 30 min followed by reperfusion. After 6, 12 h or 1, 2, 3, 5 or 9 days of reperfusion the experiment was ended. Secretory studies were performed 2 h after exposure to direct or remote ischemic preconditioning of the pancreas in conscious rats with chronic pancreatic fistula.Direct ischemic preconditioning of the pancreas applied alone reduced pancreatic exocrine secretion whereas ischemic preconditioning of the hindlimb or kidney was without effect on pancreatic secretion. Direct ischemic preconditioning of the pancreas attenuated the severity of acute pancreatitis. It was found as a reduction in the pancreatitis-evoked increase in serum activity of lipase and amylase, a decrease in serum concentration of pro-inflammatory interleukin-1beta, diminution of histological signs of pancreatic damage, as well as, an improvement of pancreatic blood flow and DNA synthesis. Remote ischemic preconditioning of the pancreas evoked by short-lasting ischemia of the hindlimb or kidney was without any protective effect in ischemia/reperfusion-induced pancreatitis. Moreover, this procedure led to a significant increase in serum activity of lipase and amylase, and enhanced the morphological signs of pancreatic damage.In contrast to direct ischemic preconditioning, remote ischemic preconditioning of the pancreas is without effect on pancreatic exocrine secretion and does not reduce the severity of ischemia/reperfusion-induced pancreatitis.