Comparison of complication outcomes in acute pancreatitis following ERCP and conservative management at UKM medical centre: a six years retrospective study. Acute pancreatitis is one of the common reasons for surgical admission. It is a potentially lethal disease that is increasing in its incidence. The most common causes of acute pancreatitis is from gallstones and alcohol. Other causes of acute pancreatitis include hypertriglyceridaemia, hyperparathyroidism, pancreatic malignancy, Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), trauma, infectious agents, drugs, autoimmunity, and hereditary. The treatment of acute pancreatitis is mainly supportive. The complication of ERCP in acute pancreatitis can be divided into local complication (pancreatic abscess, pseudocyst), systemic complications (renal failure, respiratory failure, cardiogenic shock) and biliary sepsis (acute cholangitis and acute cholecystitis). However, early ERCP and possible sphincterotomy should be kept in mind for patients with severe disease and biliary obstruction who are not improving with medical therapy. This study is done to compare the complication rate of ERCP and conservative management in acute pancreatitis for past 6 years in Pusat Perubatan UKM.The study is conducted retrospectively and the study population was from January 2003 until December 2008. About 100 patients involving 51 males and 49 females were included in this study. All of them were diagnosed acute pancreatitis based on the serum amylase level of 4 times than normal value detected from Chemistry Pathology record, Pathology Department, PPUKM. Then, data were collected from the patient's file which include the demographic data and patient clinical presentation, ultrasound finding, either patient went for ERCP within 72 hours or not. If ERCP not done within 72 hours of admission then it will considered that the patient is under conservative management.From 100 patients that involved in this study about 44% was Malay, 36 % was Chinese, 18 % was Indian and the other 2 % was from other origin. There were 28 cases (28%) where ERCP was done within 72 hours, and the other 72 cases (72%) the treatment was conservative. Among 28 cases that ERCP was done within 72 hours after admission, 20 cases are mild where as only 8 cases are severe. However, in conservative group about 56 cases are mild and the other 16 are severe. Among the conservative group there are 12 cases which have complications. The complications are respiratory failure, renal failure, sepsis, shock and pancreatic necrosis. There are 7 cases whose have respiratory failure alone, 1 case developed renal failure and 1 case has a shock. 1 case developed both pancreatic necrosis with sepsis. 1 case each developed respiratory failure with sepsis and respiratory failure with renal failure. However no complications were noted in early ERCP group.As a conclusion in this study we found out that early ERCP have a significant role in acute pancreatitis compare to conservative management.