Acute pancreatitis and afferent loop syndrome. Case report. The afferent syndrome loop is a mechanic obstruction of the afferent limb before a Billroth II or Roux-Y reconstruction, secondary in most of case to distal or subtotal gastrectomy. Clinical case: Male 76 years old, with antecedent of cholecystectomy, gastric adenocarcinoma six years ago, with subtotal gastrectomy and Roux-Y reconstruction. Beginning a several abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, abdominal distension, without peritoneal irritation sings. Amylase 1246 U/L, lipase 3381 U/L. Computed Tomography with thickness wall and dilatation of afferent loop, pancreas with diffuse enlargement diagnostic of acute pancreatitis secondary an afferent loop syndrome.The afferent loop syndrome is presented in 0.3%-1% in all cases with Billroth II reconstruction, with a mortality of up to 57%, the obstruction lead accumulation of bile, pancreatic and intestinal secretions, increasing the pressure and resulting in afferent limb, bile conduct and Wirsung conduct dilatation, triggering an inflammatory response that culminates in pancreatic inflammation. The severity of the presentation is related to the degree and duration of the blockage.Antecedentes: el síndrome de asa aferente se caracteriza por la obstrucción mecánica del asa aferente luego de la reconstrucción tipo Billroth II o en Y de Roux, en la mayoría de los casos secundaria a gastrectomía distal o subtotal. Caso clínico: paciente masculino de 76 años de edad, con antecedentes de: colecistectomía, adenocarcinoma gástrico seis años previos, gastrectomía subtotal y reconstrucción en Y de Roux. Inició con dolor abdominal, náusea y vómito abdomen distendido, sin datos de irritación peritoneal. Amilasa 1246 U/L, lipasa 3381 U/L. La tomografía computada abdominal mostró dilatación y engrosamiento de la pared del asa aferente y el páncreas con incremento de tamaño. Se le diagnosticó pancreatitis aguda, originada por síndrome de asa aferente. Conclusiones: el síndrome de asa aferente aparece en 0.3 a 1% de los casos de pacientes con reconstrucción Billroth II, a consecuencia de la obstrucción mecánica del asa aferente, con mortalidad incluso de 57%. La obstrucción del intestino aferente por acumulación de secreción biliar, pancreática e intestinal incrementa la presión, que resulta en dilatación del asa aferente de la vía biliar y del conducto de Wirsung, lo que desencadena una respuesta inflamatoria que finaliza en un cuadro de pancreatitis. Su manifestación severa se relaciona con el grado y duración de la obstrucción.