Potential effects of calcium binding protein S100A12 on severity evaluation and curative effect of severe acute pancreatitis. Severe acute pancreatitis is a life threatening disease with a high rate of mortality, but its treatments are still controversial. The purpose of this study is to investigate the potential effects of calcium binding protein S100A12 on severity evaluation and curative effect of severe acute pancreatitis induced by caerulein and lipopolysaccharide in mice. Intraperitoneal injection of 50 μg/kg caerulein for seven times (every interval time was an hour) and intraperitoneal injection of 10 mg/kg lipopolysaccharide for once to establish acute pancreatitis mice models. One hundred sixty specific pathogen-free imprinting control region (ICR) female mice were randomly divided into the control group (group A, normal saline), the mild group (group B, caerulein), the severe group (group C, caerulein + lipopolysaccharide), and the intervention group (group D, S100A12 recombinant antibodies + caerulein + lipopolysaccharide) each group had 40 mice. We sampled the blood at 8, 12, and 24 h after the beginning of building animal models. In each period of time, we respectively detected the serum S100A12, amylase (AMY), C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin (IL-1β, IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α) levels. In addition, we observed and scored the pancreas and lungs histopathology of the mice. In each same period of time compared with group C, serum AMY, CRP, IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α levels of group D were significantly decreased (p < 0.05). In each same period of time compared with group B and group C, serum S100A12 concentration of group D was significantly decreased (p < 0.05), and the pancreas and lungs histopathology were also much improved. These observations demonstrate that S100A12 recombinant antibodies were able to significantly reduce the severity of acute pancreatitis induced by caerulein and lipopolysaccharide in mice. Serum S100A12 may serve as a useful marker for disease severity and curative effect in mice with severe acute pancreatitis. 