Effects of Rhodiola on the Expression of iNOS mRNA in Severe Acute Pancreatitis Associated Re- nal Injury Rats. To explore the effect of Rhodiola on the expression of iNOS mRNA in severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) associated renal injury rats.A total of 72 healthy rats were randomly divided into the sham-operated group (S), the SAP associated renal injury group (M), and the Rhodiola-treated group (RHO), 24 in each group. Rats in S and M groups were peritoneally injected with 10 mL/kg saline 3h before modeling, while rats in the RHO group were peritoneally injected with 10 mL/kg Rhodiola Injection 3 h before modeling. The peripheral ligament of pancreas was bluntly dissociated in rats of M and RHO groups. The head of pancreas was occlused by nontraumatic blood vessel forceps 3 h later to establish the model. Eight rats were randomly selected from each group at 12, 24, and 36 h after modeling to detect levels of serum amylase, creatinine, and blood urea nitrogen. Serum levels of interleukin 1β (IL-1β) and interleukin 10 (IL-10) were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Pathological changes of the left kidney were observed under light microscope. The expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) mRNA in the right kidney was detected with real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).Compared with the S group, serum levels of amylase, creatinine (Cr), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), IL-1β, IL-10, and iNOS mRNA expression significantly increased in the M group (P < 0.01). The function of kidney and pancreas were obviously improved in the RHO group than in the M group. Levels of IL-1β and iNOS significantly decreased, but IL-10 levels significantly increased in the RHO group with statistical difference (P < 0.05).Rhodiola had better protective effect on SAP associated renal injury, which might be achieved through inhibiting the expression of IL-1β, stimulating the expression of IL-10, down-regulating iNOS mRNA expression, reducing the generation of oxygen free radicals and NO damage to cells, and improving hypoxia tolerance capabilities of the kidney.