Caerulein-induced acute necrotizing pancreatitis in mice: protective effects of proglumide, benzotript, and secretin. The onset, course, and regression of the biochemical and structural alterations associated with pancreatitis induced by various doses of caerulein were studied in the mouse. In addition, the protective effect of secretin was compared with that of the cholecystokinin-receptor antagonists proglumide and benzotript. Subcutaneous or intraperitoneal injections of caerulein induced increases in serum amylase concentration and pancreatic weight and histologic evidence of acute pancreatitis, all effects being dose-related. Cytoplasmic vacuoles were the earliest histologic alterations. As the pancreatitis progressed these vacuoles increased to an enormous size. Interstitial inflammation and acinar cell necrosis were prominent after 6 h, reached a maximum after 12 h, and mostly disappeared after 4 days. During the course of pancreatitis approximately 40% of the acinar cells showed signs of severe degeneration or necrosis at the most effective doses of caerulein. Electron microscopy showed both intact and degenerating granules inside the vacuoles. Signs of basolateral exocytosis of zymogen granules were not observed. During the regression of pancreatitis, focal atrophy was a remarkable histologic finding. Repetitive initiation of pancreatitis (six courses of caerulein injections over 5 wk) produced marked focal atrophy and early fibrosis. High doses of proglumide or benzotript markedly ameliorated both the biochemical and structural alterations induced by caerulein. Secretin, even at very high doses, had only minor protective effects. This study presents a model of acute necrotizing pancreatitis in which the severity of the induced pancreatitis ranges dose-dependently from mild interstitial inflammation to severe necrosis. The ultrastructural alterations described herein support the hypothesis that the trigger mechanism of acute pancreatitis appears to be a primary intracellular event rather than an interstitial event that secondarily damages the acinar cells.