Pancreatic secretory abnormalities precede appearance of tumors of the pancreas in hamsters treated with bis-(2-oxopropyl)-N-nitrosamine. The possibility that pancreatic secretory abnormalities might precede the appearance of pancreatic neoplasms and thus provide clues to early detection of this malignancy has been investigated in an animal model. Syrian golden hamsters were treated with bis-(2-oxopropyl)-N-nitrosamine on two successive weeks (2 mg/100 g body weight/week). Pancreatic secretions from treated and untreated control animals were studied at approximately monthly intervals. The animals were anesthetized, their pancreatic ducts cannulated, and basal pancreatic juice collected for 30 min. Pancreatic secretion was then stimulated by sequential intravenous injection of secretin (50 ng/100 g) and C-terminal octapeptide of cholecystokinin (4 ng/100 g) 1 hr later. Four consecutive 15-min collections of fluid were made following secretin stimulation and four additional collections after CCK administration. Each collection was examined for volume, total protein, trypsin, chymotrypsin, elastase, arylsulfatase, beta-D-glucuronidase, alpha-D-glucosidase, and leucine naphthylamidase. In addition two trypsinogen variants present in pancreatic secretions were determined. The pancreas and other organs were removed and examined histologically at the end of each experiment. Cytological atypia appeared 3 months, ductal hyperplasia 4 months, and pancreatic neoplasms 6 months after the last injection of carcinogen. Striking decreases in flow rate and output of trypsin and chymotrypsin were observed several months prior to the appearance of histologically recognizable pancreatic tumors. By contrast, output of beta-D-glucuronidase and alpha-D-glucosidase in pancreatic juice increased markedly in the last 2 months preceding the emergence of neoplasms. The diagnostic significance of these premalignant abnormalities is illustrated most dramatically in the form of ratios of lysosomal to digestive enzymes, such as beta-D-glucuronidase-trypsin or alpha-D-glucosidase-chymotrypsin. Highly significant increases in these ratios were observed consistently, not only in hamsters with pancreatic neoplasms, but also in animals with preneoplastic lesions (ductular hyperplasia) which preceded malignancies by about 2 months.