<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2003</DATELINE><TITLE>Vaccines of the future</TITLE><BODY>This report has been prepared by Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., Bear, Stearns International Limited or Bear Stearns Asia Limited (together with their affiliates, 'Bear Stearns'), as indicated on the cover page hereof. This report has been adopted and approved for distribution in the United States by Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. If you are a recipient of this publication in the United States, orders in any securities referred to herein should be placed with Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. This report has been approved for publication in the United Kingdom by Bear, Stearns International Limited, which is regulated by the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority. Private Customers in the U.K. should contact their Bear, Stearns International Limited representatives about the investments concerned. This report is distributed in Hong Kong by Bear Stearns Asia Limited, which is regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong. Additional information is available upon request. Bear Stearns and its employees, officers, and directors deal as principal in transactions involving the securities referred to herein (or options or other instruments related thereto), including transactions contrary to any recommendations contained herein. Bear Stearns and its employees may also have engaged in transactions with issuers identified herein. This publication does not constitute an offer or solicitation of any transaction in any securities referred to herein. Any recommendation contained herein may not be suitable for all investors. Although the information contained in the subject report has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable, its accuracy and completeness cannot be guaranteed. This publication and any recommendation contained herein speak only as of the date hereof and are subject to change without notice. Bear Stearns and its affiliated companies and employees shall have no obligation to update or amend any information contained herein. This publication is being furnished to you for informational purposes only and on the condition that it will not form a primary basis for any investment decision. Each investor must make its own determination of the appropriateness of an investment in any securities referred to herein based on the legal, tax, and accounting considerations applicable to such investor and its own investment strategy. By virtue of this publication, none of Bear Stearns or any of its employees shall be responsible for any investment decision. This report may not be reproduced, distributed, or published without the prior consent of Bear Stearns. © 2003. All rights reserved by Bear Stearns. This report may discuss numerous securities, some of which may not be qualified for sale in certain states and may therefore not be offered to investors in such states. NOTE TO ACCOUNT EXECUTIVES: For securities that are not listed on the NYSE, AMEX, or Nasdaq National Market System, check the Compliance page of the Bear Stearns Intranet site for State Blue Sky data prior to soliciting or accepting orders from clients. Outperform (O) - Stock is projected to outperform analyst's industry coverage universe over the next 12 months. Peer Perform (P) - Stock is projected to perform approximately in line with analyst's industry coverage universe over the next 12 months. Underperform (U) - Stock is projected to underperform analyst's industry coverage universe over the next 12 months. Market Overweight (MO) - Expect the industry to perform better than the primary market index for the region over the next 12 months. Market Weight (MW) - Expect the industry to perform approximately in line with the primary market index for the region over the next 12 months. Market Underweight (MU) - Expect the industry to underperform the primary market index for the region over the next 12 months. (%Rated companies / %Banking client in the last 12 months). Outperform (Buy): 34.3 / 19.3. Peer Perform (Neutral): 47.4 / 12.8. Underperform (Sell): 18.2 / 8.2. The costs and expenses of Equity Research, including the compensation of the analyst(s) that prepared this report, are paid out of the Firm's total revenues, a portion of which is generated through investment banking activities. Wyeth WYE Peer Perform $42.85. Merck MRK Underperform $50.32. MedImmune MEDI Outperform $34.70. Aventis (AVE) Peer Perform $49.00. GlaxoSmithkline GSK Peer perform $38.83. GenVec (GNVC) NR $2.35. Avant Immunotherapeutics (AVAN) NR $2.35. VaxGen (VXGN) NR $4.10. Chiron (CHIR) NR $50.81. Acambis (ACAM) NR $56.72. Crucell NV (CRXL) NR $3.70. ID BioMedical (IDBE) NR $13.45. Dor BioPharma (DOR) NR $0.71. Vical (VICL) NR - $5.30. Targeted Genetics (TGEN) NR $1.93. Bavarian Nordic A/S (BAVA.CP) NR. Therion Biologics NR - Private. DynPort Vaccine Company LLC NR - private. AlphaVax NR - private. BioPort Corporation NR - private. Avecia NR - private. Regulation A/C The Research Analyst(s) who prepared the document / email hereby certify that the views expressed in this document / email accurately reflect the analyst(s) personal views about the subject companies and their securities. The Research Analyst(s) also certify that the Analyst(s) have not been, are not, and will not be receiving direct or indirect compensation for expressing the specific recommendation(s) or view(s) in this report.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>