Clinical impact of molecular diagnostics in endocrinology. Polymorphisms, mutations and DNA technologies. Genetic defects in genes encoding hormones, hormone receptors or polypeptides of the signaling pathways usually cause complex disease manifestations characterized by the involvement of several tissues and variable expression. Genetic aberrations, like chromosome aneuploidy, gene translocations or mutations in key regulatory proteins (even if not directly affecting genes of the endocrine system) often lead to clinical symptoms, including central endocrine functions like sexual differentiation or metabolic disturbances, like diabetes mellitus. But also minor genetic alterations like point mutations can affect the function of gene products to cause endocrine diseases. If the underlying molecular defects of endocrinopathies are known, direct molecular diagnosis can be performed. This is particularly useful if it helps to solve difficult differential diagnosis problems or if there exist effective preventive therapeutic options. The present paper presents examples for endocrine diseases in which molecular testing significantly increases the specificity and sensitivity of diagnostics and demonstrates the benefits for the patients and the healthcare system. In multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2, an unambiguous identification of gene carriers in affected families can be achieved by genetic testing. As a preventive measure to avoid medullary thyroid carcinoma, prophylactic thyroidectomy is recommended for individuals carrying the disease causing mutation. In adrenogenital syndrome, sequence analysis of the steroid 21-hydroxylase gene has become an important tool to confirm or exclude suspected late-onset forms of the disease, where hormone measurements are not informative. The major benefit, however, lies in identifying heterozygous carriers and providing a reliable prenatal test for couples carrying a defect in the 21-hydroxylase gene. Today, prenatal treatment with dexamethasone, which prevents the virilization in female fetuses, should always be based on results from molecular diagnosis performed from chorionic villus samples.