Sources of movement-related cortical potentials derived from foot, finger, and mouth movements. Movement-related cortical potentials (MRCPs) register brain electrical activity before and during movement execution. In an attempt to delineate the components of MRCPs that reflect common sources to various movements and that are movement-specific, simple self-paced voluntary foot, finger, and mouth movements were studied. MRCPs were recorded in eight healthy volunteers with 30 electrodes placed on the scalp. Data were analyzed using Brain Electric Source Analysis software, and multiple equivalent dipole models were developed to separate spatial and temporal aspects of brain activity related to the execution of voluntary movements. Independent models were separately developed for the grand average data and for the individual subjects' data for each movement type. MRCPs derived from foot movements were accounted for using a 5-dipole model, finger movements using an 8-dipole model, and mouth movements with a 7-dipole model, yielding the grand average residual variances of 3%, 2%, and 6%, respectively. Based on individual models, intersubject variability of dipole locations was less than 10 mm (+/- SD). Overlaying the mean dipole coordinates onto the stereotaxic atlas provided proof that the sensorimotor cortical areas, supplementary motor area, and also cerebellum and thalamus were active in all three movements. Locations of the dipoles in the contralateral sensorimotor area clearly implied well-known medial to lateral somatotopic organization of foot, finger, and mouth movements. Temporal separation of the activity spread over different brain areas was demonstrated by evolution in the moments of dipole source potentials. The authors' models support the view of simultaneous activation of the primary motor cortex and supplementary motor area at the time of movement execution. Multiple equivalent dipole models developed in this study implied the activity originating in corresponding brain areas as previously detected by positron emission tomography or functional magnetic resonance imaging. However, MRCPs provided additional information regarding the temporal evolution of the brain activity related to the execution of voluntary movements. Thus, the concurrent use of MRCPs and other imaging techniques may provide complementary information not easily obtained by the other imaging techniques themselves.