Persistent elevation of C-reactive protein and ischemic heart disease in patients with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. We evaluated the association between a persistent elevation of C-reactive protein (CRP) level and the presence or severity of ischemic heart disease (IHD) in patients with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). Seventy-three patients, who were over 40 years old, underwent dipyridamole thallium single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and followed-up for more than 1 year were enrolled. We measured stored plasma for CRP every 3 months. Elevation of CRP was defined as greater than or equal to 5 mg/L and persistent elevation of CRP as elevated CRP levels that lasted longer than 6 months. Serum albumin, cholesterol, lipoprotein(a), and plasma fibrinogen were measured at 3 months after the start of CAPD. Twenty-six patients showed an elevation of CRP for more than 6 months during the follow-up period. Twenty-eight patients showed positive findings on thallium SPECT. Coronary angiography showed significant stenosis (narrowing of the diameter more than 50%) in 23 of the 25 patients studied. Seventeen (65%) of 26 patients who had an elevated CRP level for longer than 6 months had positive thallium SPECT. The presence of diabetes, albumin, fibrinogen, and the presence of a persistent elevation of CRP were different between the patients with positive (n = 28) or negative thallium SPECT (n = 45). A multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that a persistent elevation of CRP is the only predictor of positive thallium SPECT (P = 0.002). There was a tendency of association, although it was not statistically significant, between the persistence of CRP elevation and the severity of IHD (P = 0.066). Three of 9 patients who had a persistent elevation of CRP and a negative thallium SPECT had a history of cerebral infarction or peripheral vascular disease. Therefore, 77% (20/26) of an elevated CRP level that lasted longer than 6 months can be explained by the presence of IHD or other atherosclerotic vascular disease. In conclusion, a persistent elevation of CRP level in patients with CAPD was strongly associated with IHD. For patients who have a persistent elevation of CRP without an apparent cause, we recommend a workup for IHD or other atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.