MRI: are you playing your system like a fiddle or a Stradivarius? Where we are headed and how to keep up. Dr. Raymond Damadian performed the first human magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan in 1977. Unveiled from behind the research curtain, MRI technology was introduced to the clinical environment by the mid 1980s. Most academic and largehospitals lined up right away and purchased their first scanners as soon as they became available. The race began, and the MRI learning process at radiology departments all over the world started. As with any growing technology, came a surge of competition--manufacturers as well as imaging facilities. MRI technology flooded the medical community, since it provided enormous benefits for patients and doctors. It was like a rocket launching with scientists and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) researching, creating and contributing to the advancement of clinical science and forever improved diagnoses. Radiologists at UCLA predict that most of today's procedures currently falling under research will flourish in the clinical setting within the next 5 years. The rise of PET technology and the ability to fuse metabolic images with an anatomical MRI map will undoubtedly prove invaluable for staging of pathology, treatment planning and tracking, especially when the disease is present within soft tissue, like the brain. Another sign that MRI is a healthy addition to medical imaging is the increasing number of MRI reimbursement codes. However, Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance companies are also scrutinizing more and paying less today than they did yesterday. There will always be certain myths about how bigger is always better. That's not to say system enhancements and advancements are not essential to medical imaging, but the needs and budgets differ for each facility. Regardless of site needs or budget, it is imperative that all facilities utilize the equipment they have to their maximum potential. The new "bells and whistles" might not be needed to stay competitive. Innovative technology continues to be available as long as there is a need. However, buying bigger and better doesn't always mean you will utilize what's been bought to its full potential.