Pre-eclampsia and fetal growth restriction: how morphometrically different is the placenta? Both pre-eclampsia (PET) and fetal growth restriction (FGR) pose a heavy burden on fetal and maternal health and may disrupt pregnancy outcome. Using design based stereological techniques, placental vascular and villous morphology were assessed to determine the individual role played by both PET and FGR on placental growth during the third trimester. The following placentas delivered between 25 and 41 weeks of gestation were included into the study controls (n=16), PET (n=20), FGR (n=17) and PET-FGR (n=16). Each placenta was uniformly randomly sampled and the sampled tissue processed to paraffin. Sections were stained with a CD34 antibody and the following morphometric parameters estimated: volumes, surface areas, length, diameters and the shape factor of the villous (terminal and intermediate) and vascular placental features. For stereologically estimated parameters pure PET had an effect on IVS and terminal villi volume only. FGR alone or when coexisting with PET contributed towards significant reductions in volumetric and surface area terminal villous and vascular features. FGR factors also contributed towards a significant reduction in the lengths of all parameters estimated and in the terminal villi diameter. Additionally, FGR was associated with a significant difference in shape factor indices for both intermediate and terminal villi. This study has shown that PET on its own has limited influence on the placental morphology studied, since the vascular features estimated do not differ stereologically from age matched normal controls. However, placental morphology is different between PET and PET-FGR and between PET-FGR and FGR. PET and FGR may have a cumulative effect on placental villous and vascular morphology as seen in the PET-FGR but there is no synergistic effect. These morphological abnormalities may have major physiological implications in terms of placental function and fetal growth.