Neural network evaluation of PET scans of the liver: a potentially useful adjunct in clinical interpretation. To assess the performance of an artificial neural network in the evaluation of fluorine 18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake in the liver, compared with the results of expert interpretation of abdominal liver magnetic resonance (MR) images.The study was approved by the institutional human research committee and was HIPAA compliant, with waiver of informed consent. Digital data from positron emission tomographic (PET)/computed tomographic (CT) examinations, along with patient demographics, were obtained from 98 consecutive patients who underwent both whole-body PET/CT examinations and liver MR imaging examinations within 2 months. Interpretations of the scans from PET/CT examinations by trained neural networks were cross-classified with expert interpretations of the findings on images from MR examinations for intrahepatic benignity or malignancy. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were obtained for the designed networks. The significance of the difference between neural network ROC curves and the ROC curves detailing the performance of two expert blinded observers in the interpretation of liver FDG uptake was determined.A neural network incorporating lesion data demonstrated an ROC curve with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.905 (standard error, 0.0370). A network independent of lesion data demonstrated an ROC curve with an AUC of 0.896 (standard error, 0.0386). These results compare favorably with results of expert blinded observers 1 and 2 who demonstrated ROCs with AUCs of 0.786 (standard error, 0.0522) and 0.796 (standard error, 0.0514), respectively. Following unblinding to network data, the AUCs for readers 1 and 2 improved to 0.924 (standard error, 0.0335) and 0.881 (standard error, 0.0409), respectively.Computers running artificial neural networks employing PET/CT scan data are sensitive and specific in the designation of the presence of intrahepatic malignancy, with comparison with interpretation by expert observers. When used in conjunction with human expertise, network data improve accuracy of the human interpreter.