Imaging for target volume delineation in rectal cancer radiotherapy--a systematic review. The global move towards more conformal radiotherapy for rectal cancer requires better imaging modalities that both visualise the disease accurately and are reproducible to reduce interobserver variation. This review explores the advances in imaging modalities used in target volume delineation, with a view to make recommendations for current clinical practice and to propose future directions for research. A systematic review was conducted using MEDLINE and EMBASE. Articles considered relevant by the authors were included. Planning with orthogonal films is being replaced by computed tomography (CT) simulation. This is now considered the 'gold standard' and allows conformal three-dimensional planning. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been shown to overcome some of the limitations of CT and can be used either as a diagnostic image to visually aid planning, or as a 'planning' MRI carried out in the treatment position and co-registered with the planning CT. The latter approach has been shown to change the treated volumes compared with CT and in prostate cancer patients has been shown to reduce interobserver variation. There are remaining issues with four-dimensional motion that are yet to be fully appreciated or overcome. 2-[18F] fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose positron emission tomography/CT co-registered with planning CT results in smaller volumes than CT alone and also reduces interobserver variation, but requires further validation before routine implementation. Experimental work utilising novel positron emission tomography tracers and diffusion-weighted MRI shows promise and requires further evaluation. Rigorous quality assurance is important with processing of newer imaging modalities. Further work needs to be conducted into both interobserver variation and the formal evaluation of the clinical benefits of newer imaging modalities. Developments in image-guided radiotherapy are also required to ensure that improvements in target definition at the planning stage are reproducible throughout treatment.