Moyamoya disease in adults: characteristics of clinical presentation and outcome after encephalo-duro-arterio-synangiosis. To determine the clinical characteristics and the effectiveness of encephalo-duro-arterio-synangiosis (EDAS) in adulthood-onset Moyamoya disease (MMD), the authors retrospectively reviewed 26 patients suffering from MMD who were admitted to Seoul National University Hospital between 1987 and 1995. When they showed major symptoms, all were more than 16 years-old. The most common presenting symptom was intracranial hemorrhage (ICrH), found in 12 patients or 46% of the total the second was infarction and transient ischemic attack, each found in seven or 27% of them. Only one patient was found to have seizures, which were associated with a cerebral infarction. The Suzuki angiographic stage 3 and less than stage 3 accounted for 73% of all 52 hemispheres. A total of 15 patients underwent single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) preoperatively. When the derangement of cerebral perfusion was estimated with four SPECT grades (SG), 70% of their hemispheres revealed normal (SG1) or localized decreased-perfusion (SG2). The other 30% had extensive decreased-perfusion or localized perfusion defects (SG3). There was no case who had extensive perfusion defects (SG4). A total of 17 patients underwent EDAS operations (EDAS group) and nine did not undergo any operation (no-op group). The EDAS group had significantly better clinical outcomes than the no-op group after a 12-month median follow-up period (P < 0.05). The angiographic and SPECT follow-up studies comprised six and seven cases, respectively. There was also satisfactory angiographic revascularization in all follow-up cases and improvement in cerebral perfusion at SPECT follow-up in six of seven cases. It is concluded that the involvement of posterior circulation of MMD is not frequent and cerebral perfusion is preserved in adulthood-onset MMD patients. These findings may explain the reason why hemorrhages are frequent and the late onset of symptoms in adulthood-onset MMD. Surgical treatment with EDAS seems to be effective in adulthood-onset MMD in terms of clinical improvement.