<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-08-01</DATELINE><TITLE>Surfactin Inhibits Membrane Fusion during Invasion of Epithelial Cells by Enveloped Viruses</TITLE><BODY>Because membrane fusion is a crucial step in the process by which enveloped viruses invade host cells, membrane fusion inhibitors can be effective drugs against enveloped viruses. We found that surfactin from Bacillus subtilis can suppress the proliferation of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) and transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) in epithelial cells at a relatively low concentration range (15 to 50 μg/ml), without cytotoxicity or viral membrane disruption. Membrane fusion inhibition experiments demonstrate that surfactin treatment significantly reduces the rate at which the virus fuses to the cell membrane. Thermodynamic experiments show that the incorporation of small amounts of surfactin hinders the formation of negative curvature by lamellar-phase lipids, suggesting that surfactin acts a membrane fusion inhibitor. A fluorescent lipopeptide similar to surfactin was synthesized, and its ability to insert into the viral membrane was confirmed by spectroscopy. In vivo experiments have shown that oral administration of surfactin to piglets protects against PEDV infection. In conclusion, our study indicates that surfactin is a membrane fusion inhibitor with activity against enveloped viruses. As the first reported naturally occurring wedge lipid membrane fusion inhibitor, surfactin is likely to be a prototype for the development of a broad range of novel antiviral drugs. IMPORTANCE Membrane fusion inhibitors are a rapidly emerging class of antiviral drugs that inhibit the infection process of enveloped viruses. They can be classified, on the basis of the viral components targeted, as fusion protein targeting or membrane lipid targeting. Lipid-targeting membrane fusion inhibitors have a broader antiviral spectrum and are less likely to select for drug-resistant mutations. Here we show that surfactin is a membrane fusion inhibitor and has a strong antiviral effect. The insertion of surfactin into the viral envelope lipids reduces the probability of viral fusion. We also demonstrate that oral administration of surfactin protects piglets from PEDV infection. Surfactin is the first naturally occurring wedge lipid membrane fusion inhibitor that has been identified and may be effective against many viruses beyond the scope of this study. Understanding its mechanism of action provides a foundation for the development of novel antiviral agents.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>