<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2013-06-01</DATELINE><TITLE>Systematic Review of Strategies to Manage and Allocate Scarce Resources during Mass Casualty Events</TITLE><BODY>CONTEXT: Efficient management and allocation of scarce medical resources can improve outcomes for victims of Mass Casualty Events (MCEs). However, the effectiveness of specific strategies has never been systematically reviewed. OBJECTIVES: We analyzed published evidence on strategies to optimize the management and allocation of scarce resources across a wide range of MCE contexts and study designs. DATA SOURCES: Our literature search included Medline, Scopus, Embase, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Global Health, Web of Science®, and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, from 1990 through late 2011. We also searched the grey literature using the New York Academy of Medicine’s Grey Literature Report and key websites. We included both English and foreign language articles. STUDY SELECTION: We included studies that evaluated strategies employed in real-world MCEs or tested through drills, exercises, or computer simulations. We excluded studies that lacked a comparison group or did not report quantitative outcomes. DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Data extraction, quality assessment, and strength of evidence ratings were conducted by a single researcher and reviewed by a second; discrepancies were reconciled by the two reviewers. Due to heterogeneity in outcome measures, we qualitatively synthesized findings within categories of strategies. RESULTS: From 5,716 potentially relevant citations, 74 studies met inclusion criteria. Strategies included: reducing demand for healthcare services (18 studies), optimizing use of existing resources (50), augmenting existing resources (5), implementing crisis standards of care (5), and multiple categories (4). The evidence was sufficient to form conclusions on two strategies, although the strength of evidence was rated as low. First, as a strategy to reduce demand for healthcare services, Points of Dispensing (PODs) can be used to efficiently distribute biological countermeasures following a bioterror attack or influenza pandemic, and their organization influences speed of distribution. Second, as a strategy to optimize use of existing resources, commonly used field triage systems do not perform consistently during actual MCEs. The number of high-quality studies addressing other strategies was insufficient to support conclusions about their effectiveness because of differences in study context, comparison groups, and outcome measures. LIMITATIONS: Our literature search may have missed key resource management and allocation strategies due to their extreme heterogeneity. Inter-rater reliability was not assessed for quality assessments or strength of evidence ratings. Publication bias is likely given the large number of studies reporting positive findings. CONCLUSIONS: The current evidence base is inadequate to inform providers and policymakers about the most effective strategies for managing or allocating scarce resources during MCEs. Consensus on methodological standards that encompass a range of study designs is needed to guide future research and strengthen the evidence base. Evidentiary standards should be developed to promote consensus interpretations of the evidence supporting individual strategies.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>