<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2017-07-26</DATELINE><TITLE>Hepatitis C Virus Induces the Localization of Lipid Rafts to Autophagosomes for Its RNA Replication</TITLE><BODY>Autophagy plays important roles in maintaining cellular homeostasis. It uses double- or multiple-membrane vesicles termed autophagosomes to remove protein aggregates and damaged organelles from the cytoplasm for recycling. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) has been shown to induce autophagy to enhance its own replication. Here we describe a procedure that combines membrane flotation and affinity chromatography for the purification of autophagosomes from cells that harbor an HCV subgenomic RNA replicon. The purified autophagosomes had double- or multiple-membrane structures with a diameter ranging from 200 nm to 600 nm. The analysis of proteins associated with HCV-induced autophagosomes by proteomics led to the identification of HCV nonstructural proteins as well as proteins involved in membrane trafficking. Notably, caveolin-1, caveolin-2, and annexin A2, which are proteins associated with lipid rafts, were also identified. The association of lipid rafts with HCV-induced autophagosomes was confirmed by Western blotting, immunofluorescence microscopy, and immunoelectron microscopy. Their association with autophagosomes was also confirmed in HCV-infected cells. The association of lipid rafts with autophagosomes was specific to HCV, as it was not detected in autophagosomes induced by nutrient starvation. Further analysis indicated that the autophagosomes purified from HCV replicon cells could mediate HCV RNA replication in a lipid raft-dependent manner, as the depletion of cholesterol, a major component of lipid rafts, from autophagosomes abolished HCV RNA replication. Our studies thus demonstrated that HCV could specifically induce the association of lipid rafts with autophagosomes for its RNA replication. IMPORTANCE HCV can cause severe liver diseases, including cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, and is one of the most important human pathogens. Infection with HCV can lead to the reorganization of membrane structures in its host cells, including the induction of autophagosomes. In this study, we developed a procedure to purify HCV-induced autophagosomes and demonstrated that HCV could induce the localization of lipid rafts to autophagosomes to mediate its RNA replication. This finding provided important information for further understanding the life cycle of HCV and its interaction with the host cells.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>