Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ameliorates life-threatening infections after combined therapy with barbiturates and mild hypothermia in patients with severe head injuries. The objective of this study was to clarify the effects of recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (rhG-CSF) administration on infections in patients with severe head injuries after combined therapy with high-dose barbiturates and mild hypothermia.Since 1996, we have administered rhG-CSF to eight patients with severe head injuries for 5 days (group G). Their treatment results were compared with those of 22 patients cared for earlier without rhG-CSF treatment (group N). All patients in both groups met the criteria of total leukocyte count (TLC) less than 5,000/mm3, C-reactive protein (CRP) over 10 mg/dL, and the presence of an infectious complication. Changes in the TLC, CRP, respiratory index, intracranial pressure, and infectious condition were evaluated in both groups. In addition, the nucleated cell count and differentiation from bone marrow aspiration, neutrophil functions, serum concentrations of interleukin-6, and plasma concentration of leukocyte elastase were evaluated in group G.In group G, TLC, nucleated cell count, and neutrophil functions significantly increased, whereas CRP, respiratory index, and interleukin-6 decreased reciprocally. There was no deterioration of intracranial pressure and leukocyte elastase. Consequently, seven of the eight patients in group G recovered from life-threatening infections, and none of the eight patients died. However, in group N, CRP and respiratory index remained high and TLC did not increase as much as it did in group G. Infections continued after 5 days in 17 of the 22 patients, 7 of whom died from severe infections during hospitalization.Administration of rhG-CSF ameliorated life-threatening infections without causing lung injury or increasing brain swelling in patients with severe head injuries who were treated with combined therapy involving high-dose barbiturates and mild hypothermia.