Infection control: avoiding the inevitable. Infection, while a major cause of morbidity, should not be considered an inevitable consequence of injury. Good aseptic technique, compulsive attention to detail, and thorough understanding of the points addressed in the following list of critical points are the best guarantee that infection will not add avoidable morbidity to misfortune. Critical points regarding infectious problems in care of the injured child: 1. Polymicrobial infection is the rule with 50% of isolates being mixed aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. 2. It is a misnomer to consider antibiotic use in a pediatric trauma victim as prophylactic. Antimicrobials used in this setting are best considered adjunctive. 3. The major indication for anti-infective therapy in pediatric trauma is an injury with a high probability of infection. 4. Antibiotics do not sterilize the wound or body cavity they limit bacterial proliferation, thereby supplementing effective immune control. 5. Available studies suggest that 24 hours is as efficacious as a longer treatment duration in a purely adjunctive mode. 6. In bites inflicted by dogs and cats, Pasturella species are frequent. 7. Human bites may result in infection by Eikenella corrodens. 8. Based on this bacteriology, adjunctive intravenous ampicillin sulbactam or oral amoxicillin clavulanate are recommended for human and animal bites. 9. Tetanus prophylaxis is indicated in all significant soft tissue injuries. 10. Risk of osteomyelitis correlates directly with the extent of the associated soft tissue injury and vascular compromise. 11. The majority of infectious complications in the injured child are not a consequence of the injury itself, but rather in the treatment thereof. 12. In the injured child the most common nosocomial infection is lower respiratory followed by primary blood stream and the urinary tract. 13. The management of nosocomial pneumonia in the injured child is based on the time of diagnoses. Early evidence of pulmonary infection requires treatment with a third generation cephalosporin with or without an antistaphylococcal penicillin. Late pneumonia is treated with an aminoglycoside with or without an antipseudomonal added. 14. Catheter related infection is, in the injured child, overwhelmingly gram positive with coagulase negative staphlococcal species accounting for 30-60% of isolates. Staphlococcus aureus is responsible for an additional 15-20%. 15. The role of antibiotics in the prevention of catheter related meningitis is controversial. Recent adult studies suggest no advantage to their routine use. If utilized, they should only be employed prophylactically and not continued throughout the monitoring period. 16. Lack of response to treatment of sepsis may represent an inappropriate antimicrobial agent, improper dosage, inability to achieve adequate levels at the site of infection. (eg, CSF) fungal pathogen, and/or ongoing contamination or undrained purulent focus.