Analysis of structure and function of putative surface-exposed proteins encoded in the Streptococcus pneumoniae genome: a bioinformatics-based approach to vaccine and drug design. Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of fatal community-acquired pneumonia, middle ear infection, and meningitis. The prevention and treatment of this infection have become a top priority for the medical-scientific community. The present polysaccharide-based vaccine used to immunize susceptible hosts is only approximately 60% effective and is ineffective in children younger than 2 years of age. The new conjugate vaccine, based on the engineered diphtheria toxin coupled to polysaccharide antigens. is approved only for use in children under 2 years of age to treat invasive disease. While penicillin is the drug of choice to treat infections secondary to S. pneumoniae, increasing numbers of bacterial strains are resistant to penicillin as well as to broad spectrum antibiotics such as vancomycin. Thus, there is a need to identify new strategies to prevent and treat diseases caused by to S. pneumoniae. In this article, we summarize the utilization of the recently available S. pneumoniae genomic information in order to identify and characterize novel proteins likely located on the surface of this Gram-positive pathogenic bacterium. Because only a limited number of surface proteins of S. pneumoniae have been characterized to date, this information provides new insights into the pathogenesis of this organism as well as highlights possible avenues for its treatment and/or prevention in the future. The review is divided into two sections. First, we brietly summarize current information about known surface-exposed proteins of S. pneumoniae. This is followed by the illustration of procedures for the identification of new putative surface-exposed proteins. These have signal peptides required for their extra-cytoplasmic transport and/or additional signature sequences. Some of these will be S. pneumoniae virulence factors. The signature sequences we have chosen are those leading to protein binding to choline present on the bacterial surface, attachment to peptidoglycan of the cell wall, or anchoring to lipids of the cytoplasmic membrane. All these signatures are indicative of binding of proteins to the surface of this organism. Secondly, we illustrate the application of bioinformatics and modeling tools to these selected proteins in order to provide information about their likely functions and preliminary three-dimensional structure models. The focal point of the analysis of these proteins, their sequences, and structures is the evaluation of their antigenic properties and possible roles in pathogenicity. The information obtained from the genome analysis will be instrumental in the development of a more effective prophylactic and/or therapeutic agents to prevent and to treat infections due to S. pneumoniae.