Factors associated with the outcome of life-threatening necrotizing pneumonia due to community-acquired Staphylococcus aureus in adult and adolescent patients. Although community-acquired Staphylococcus aureus pneumonia with highly virulent Panton-Valentine leukocidin (PVL)-positive strains, a severe disease with significant lethality, is rare, especially in adult and adolescent patients, recent reports highlight that these infections are on the rise.To describe the demographic and clinical features of reported cases of life-threatening community-acquired S. aureus pneumonia with usually PVL-positive strains in adult and adolescent patients, to evaluate the variables related to death, and to select a more appropriate antimicrobial treatment for this potentially deadly disease.We summarized all of the 92 reported cases and our case. The effect of 5 variables on mortality was measured using logistic regression.S. aureus community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) with usually PVL-positive strains is a severe disease with significant lethality, i.e. 42.9% a short duration of the time from the onset of symptoms to death, i.e. 5.5 ± 10.1 days, and prolonged hospital admissions, i.e. 33.2 ± 29.5 days. Seventy-three cases have been tested for the gene for PVL, and 71 strains have been found to carry the PVL gene. Logistic regression analysis showed that leucopenia (p = 0.002), influenza-like symptoms or laboratory-confirmed influenza (p = 0.011), and hemoptysis (p = 0.024) were the factors associated with death. Antibiotic therapies inhibiting toxin production were associated with an improved outcome in these cases (p = 0.007).Physicians should pay special attention to those patients who acquired severe CAP during influenza season and have flu-like symptoms, hemoptysis, and leucopenia, and they should consider S. aureus more frequently among the possible pathogens of severe CAP. Empiric therapy for severe CAP with this distinct clinical picture should include coverage for S. aureus. Targeted treatment with antimicrobials inhibiting toxin production appears to be a more appropriate selection.