Antenatal inflammation reduces expression of caveolin-1 and influences multiple signaling pathways in preterm fetal lungs. Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), associated with chorioamnionitis, results from the simultaneous effects of disrupted lung development, lung injury, and repair superimposed on the developing lung. Caveolins (Cavs) are implicated as major modulators of lung injury and remodeling by multiple signaling pathways, although Cavs have been minimally studied in the injured developing lung. We hypothesized that chorioamnionitis-associated antenatal lung inflammation would decrease the expression of Cav-1 in preterm fetal lungs. We tested whether changes occurred in the transcription factors Smad2/3, Smad1/5, Stat3, and Stat1, and we also studied the activation of acid-sphingomyelinase (a-SMase) with the generation of ceramide, along with changes in the expression of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) as indicators of possible Cav-1-mediated effects. Fetal sheep were exposed to 10 mg of intra-amniotic endotoxin or saline for 2, 7, or 2 + 7 days before preterm delivery at 124 days of gestation. The expression of Cav-1 and HO-1 and the phosphorylation of Smad and Stat were evaluated by real-time PCR, Western blotting, and/or immunohistochemistry. The activity of a-SMase and the concentrations of ceramide were measured. Intra-amniotic endotoxin decreased Cav-1 mRNA and protein expression in the lungs, with a maximum reduction of Cav-1 mRNA to 50% ± 7% of the control value (P < 0.05), and of Cav-1 protein expression to 20% ± 5% of the control value (P < 0.05). Decreased concentrations of Cav-1 were associated with the elevated phosphorylation of Smad2/3, Stat3, and Stat1, but not of Smad1/5. The expression of HO-1, a-SMase activity, and ceramide increased. Antenatal inflammation decreased the expression of Cav-1 in the preterm fetal lung. The decreased expression of Cav-1 was associated with the activation of the Smad2/3, Stat, and a-SMase/ceramide pathways, and with the increased expression of HO-1. The decreased concentrations of Cav-1 and changes in other signaling pathways may contribute to BPD.