A comparative, well-controlled study of ceftizoxime suppository against ceftizoxime intravenous injection in infantile acute pneumonia. We have attempted to clinically define the therapeutic usefulness of ceftizoxime suppository (CZX-S) in children with bacterial pneumonia, in a randomized trial. Intravenous injection of ceftizoxime (CZX) was used as the control. The results are summarized below. Subjects were inpatients with bacterial pneumonia, ranging in age from 9 months to 7 years and 10 months. As a rule, the daily dose was either four 250 mg (in potency) suppositories given at 6-hour intervals or 60 mg/kg body weight intravenous CZX (control) given in 4 injections at 6-hour intervals over a period of 7 days. The number of children in the study was 67. These children were divided into 2 dosage groups (suppository, 35 injection, 32) with matching pretreatment background factors. The severity of the target disease in the majority of the children was "moderate". The rate of therapeutic effectiveness was 97.1% for the suppository and 93.8% for the injection, and did not differ significantly between the 2 groups. Rates of efficacy by severity, presence or absence of underlying diseases, daily dose and/or complications were high without exception, and did not differ significantly between the 2 groups. Eradication rates for causative microorganisms, as studied in 16 children of each group, were both 93.8%. The 2 most frequently isolated causative organisms were Haemophilus influenzae and Streptococcus pneumoniae. Side effects were examined for 36 children of each group. The frequency of side effects did not differ significantly between the suppository group (2 with diarrhea and 1 with abdominal pain) and the injection group (1 with urticaria), and 8.3% and 2.8%, respectively. The frequency of abnormal laboratory test findings differed significantly (P less than 0.01) with respect to eosinophilia which occurred in 7 (20.6%) of the injected subjects but was not encountered in the subjects treated with suppositories. Other abnormal laboratory findings included thrombocytosis in 3 (14.3%) of the injection group and increased GOT in 1 (3.2%) of the suppository group. The suppository formulation of CZX appears to be a highly useful substitute for the injectable form, and should find a special use in children whose treatment with injections experiences some difficulty.