Mortality patterns in Kuwait: inferences from death certificate data. Two main features of the mortality pattern in Kuwait are very low crude death rates, not exceeding 2.3 per 1,000, and a high frequency of traffic accidents, ranking as the second leading cause of death. In quantitative terms, mortality statistics in Kuwait have reached their objectives in that coverage approaches 100%. However, quality of data still suffers from apparent shortcomings, as exemplified by senility (without mention of psychosis) as the sixth leading cause of death. Huge oscillations in the frequency of some conditions from one year to the next one are even more indicative of the dubious reliability of the information on the death certificate. These variations occur across the board and do not characterize only a pre-war/post-war comparison. Coding inconsistencies are not restricted to the same group of diseases (e.g., cardiovascular disorders) but appear to comprise shifts in coding between different groups of diseases (e.g., pneumonia and disorders related to short gestation). Socially undesirable causes of death are, in particular, an area where reliability of data may be easily challenged on logical grounds. If raw mortality data were taken for granted, they could be very misleading. Providing for a cautious interpretation, however, these data may still be fairly informative.This study examines the mortality patterns of Kuwaitis and non-Kuwaitis during 1987-92.  Population in Kuwait declined from about 2 million in the late 1980s, of which about 28% were nationals, to 1.4 million in June 1992.  The war in 1990-91 contributed to the departures of both Kuwaitis and non-Kuwaitis.  Crude mortality rates, with the exception of the war years, are estimated to be 2.2 and 2.3 per 1000, and 2.5 for males and 2.0 for females.  Standardized rates are three times higher (7 per 1000 for both Kuwaitis and non-Kuwaitis).  Differences in causes of death are apparent between nationals and others.  Three patterns are considered characteristic for Kuwait: 1) crude death rates are low 2) the leading causes of death are ranked peculiarly