Serial copper and ceruloplasmin levels in African newborns with emphasis on the sick and stable preterm infant, and their antioxidant capacities. Literature on serum copper (Cu) and its antioxidant protein (ceruloplasmin) in the African newborn is infrequent, and more reports are evident from developed or affluent societies. We, therefore, studied longitudinally our newborns to delineate their Cu and ceruloplasmin (CLP) status. All infants were born between July 1st, 1991 and June 30th, 1992 at the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital, Maiduguri, Nigeria. The preterm infants (PI) (gestational age < or = 36 weeks) were divided into 2 cohorts A, sick and B, stableNewborn infants were studied longitudinally to assess their serum copper (Cu) and ceruloplasmin (CLP) status.  All infants were born between July 1, 1991, and June 30, 1992, at the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital, Maiduguri, Nigeria.  Preterm infants (PI) of a maximum gestational age 36 weeks were divided into sick (A) and stable (B) cohorts, beginning with 30 in each of the 2 groups.  The groups were matched with respect to gender, gestational age, birth weight, Apgar scores, and socioeconomic class.  Cu levels were also determined in 30 stable, full-term infants.  Sick PIs had significantly lower mean Cu and CLP levels at birth, while Cu level was significantly increased by 4 weeks in cohort A and approached levels of the stable PIs.  With regard to CLP, catch-up of levels was delayed until 8 weeks, and a triphasic pattern of linear rise in Cu and CLP was discernible by 24 weeks.  Sick PIs had mean serum CLP levels of 0.5 mcmol/dl, 5.9, 15.2, 17.3, 21.2, 25.1, and 23.7 mcmol/dl at birth, 4, 8, 12, 20, and 24 weeks, respectively, and were similar from 8 weeks in cohort B.  Generally, CLP paralled serum Cu levels.  Cu levels in the full-term infant (FI) were higher at birth and became similar to PIs from 12 weeks, but were overtaken by levels in PI at 24 weeks.  FIs' Cu was significantly elevated by 8 weeks.  Decreased growth rate, nonpitting pedal edema, exaggerated physiological anemia, and chronic lung disease were morbidities noted in association with very low Cu and CLP levels.  Newborns with serum Cu and CLP higher than 0.2 mcmol/ml and 2.3 mcmol/dl, respectively, did not have a poor outcome.