Progesterone antagonists and progesterone receptor modulators: an overview. Since the original description of the structure of the antiprogestin, mifepristone, was published, numerous related compounds have been synthesized which may function as progesterone antagonists (PAs) or progesterone receptor modulators (PRMs). The latter are mixed agonists-antagonists. Both PAs and PRMs have therapeutic applications in female health care. Mifepristone is predominantly a PA and displays only minimum agonist activity in certain systems. Together with a prostaglandin, mifepristone can terminate pregnancies of less than 9 weeks duration, and it may also be used at later gestational ages. Mifepristone causes expulsion of the uterine contents following intrauterine fetal death. A mifepristone-prostaglandin combination has been shown to be very effective treatment in women with menses delay of 11 days or less. Many PAs and PRMs display antiproliferative effects in the endometrium. Serum estradiol levels however remain in the early to mid-follicular phase range. For this reason, they have application in the treatment of endometriosis and myoma without being associated with bone loss and hypoestrogenism. PRMs may also find application in the treatment of dysfunctional bleeding as well as an adjunct to estrogens in hormone replacement therapy in postmenopausal women. Many PAs have contraceptive potential by suppressing follicular development and blocking the LH surge. Low doses may also be potential contraceptives by retarding endometrial maturation without affecting ovulation or inducing bleeding. Mifepristone is an excellent agent for use as an emergency "postcoital" contraceptive. PAs may also be useful in IVF programs to prevent a premature LH surge and to delay the emergence of the implantation window. In addition to their use in women's health care, mifepristone and several other PAs are potent antiglucocorticoid agents and may be used to treat ACTH-independent Cushing's syndrome. They may also be used in the treatment of tumors containing steroid receptors and in other situations which require suppression of the ACTH-cortisol axis.