Midterm results of uterine artery embolization for symptomatic adenomyosis: initial experience. To prospectively evaluate the midterm results of uterine artery embolization for symptomatic adenomyosis.The study protocol was approved by the institutional review board, and all participants gave written informed consent. Eighteen women (mean age, 44.3 years) with symptomatic adenomyosis were treated with bilateral embolization of the uterine arteries. The diagnosis of diffuse adenomyosis was based on heterogeneous abnormal myometrial echogenicity with myometrial cysts at ultrasonography (US) or on enlarged junctional zone and myometrial cysts at magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Focal adenomyosis was diagnosed if there was a circumscribed nodular lesion mimicking intramural fibroid. All patients with associated uterine fibroids were excluded. Embolization was offered as an alternative to hysterectomy in all women. Clinical evaluation was made at regular intervals to assess patient outcome. Follow-up US or MR imaging was performed 6 months after embolization to assess uterine volume reduction.Bilateral uterine artery embolization was achieved in all but one woman by using polyvinyl alcohol particles or trisacryl microspheres. All women resumed normal menstruation after the procedure. After 6 months, 15 (94%) of 16 women reported improvement in menorrhagia. Follow-up images at 6 months depicted a slight decrease (mean, 15%) in uterine volume in 17 (94%) of 18 women. After 1 year, 11 (73%) of 15 women had improvement in menorrhagia, and eight (53%) of 15, complete resolution. After 2 years, five (56%) of nine women had complete resolution of menorrhagia. Eight (44%) of 18 women required additional treatment during follow-up for failure or recurrence five women (28%) underwent hysterectomy.Even if short-term results of uterine artery embolization to treat adenomyosis appear encouraging, midterm results are disappointing, with only 55% of treated patients showing clinical improvement after 2 years.