Discovery, chemistry, and reproductive pharmacology of asoprisnil and related 11beta-benzaldoxime substituted selective progesterone receptor modulators (SPRMs). Asoprisnil (J 867 benzaldehyde, 4-[(11beta, 17beta)-17-methoxy-17-(methoxymethyl)-3-oxoestra-4, 9-dien-11beta-yl]-, 1-oxime) is the prototype of a novel class 11beta-benzaldoxime-substituted selective progesterone receptor modulators (SPRMs) and the first-in-class SPRM to reach an advanced stage of clinical development for the treatment of uterine fibroids and endometriosis. This compound was selected in a drug discovery program aimed to identify progesterone receptor (PR) ligands with predominant agonist but also some antagonist activities. The screening program included a range of receptor binding studies and a hierarchy of in vivo tests. A series of 11beta-benzaldoxime-substituted steroidal compounds exhibiting mixed PR agonist/antagonist effects were synthesized and characterized. For inclusion in this class of compounds, two methods of synthesis were developed and optimized. The 11beta-benzaldoxime-substituted SPRMs showed high PR binding affinities, reduced glucocorticoid receptor affinities compared with the antiprogestin mifepristone, marginal androgen receptor binding affinities, and no binding to estrogen receptors. Animal tests in guinea pigs (luteolysis inhibition assay) and rabbits (McPhail test) constituted the secondary screening tests. A mosaic of progesterone agonist and antagonist effects were found in various models. The most agonistic compounds were selected for further evaluation in animal models with respect to labor induction and endometrial effects. Unlike progesterone antagonists, asoprisnil and related compounds showed marginal effects on labor and parturition in guinea pigs. Proof-of-concept studies in nonhuman primates revealed endometrial antiproliferative effects of selected compounds, including asoprisnil and J 1042, in the presence of amenorrhea and follicular phase estradiol concentrations. Asoprisnil was selected for further clinical development. It shows promising results in the treatment of uterine leiomyomata and endometriosis.