Orphan nuclear receptor DAX-1 in human endometrium and its disorders. DAX-1 (dosage-sensitive sex reversal adrenal hypoplasia congenita critical region on the X chromosome gene 1) is a recently characterized member of the orphan nuclear receptor family. DAX-1 functions as a global negative regulator of steroid hormone production. It inhibits adrenal 4 binding protein (Ad4BP)/steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1) pathway-dependent P450arom expression in cultured human endometriotic stromal cells and acts as a corepressor for estrogen receptors (ER). In this study we first examined the localization of DAX-1 in 46 normal cycling endometria, 36 cases of endometrial hyperplasia and 103 cases of endometrial carcinoma by using immunohistochemistry to elucidate the possible involvement of DAX-1 and its correlation to the status of Ad4BP/SF-1, a universal transcription factor of steroidogenesis. We then evaluated DAX-1 mRNA expression, using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction for DAX-1 in 33 cases of endometrial carcinoma for further characterization. We subsequently correlated these findings with various clinicopathological parameters of the cases. Ad4BP/SF-1 immunoreactivity was not detected in any human endometria examined. A significant inverse correlation was detected between the status of DAX-1 immunoreactivity and histological grade (P = 0.0003) in endometrial carcinoma. The labeling index (LI) values of DAX-1 in normal endometrium during the secretory phase (P < 0.0001) and hyperplasia (P < 0.0001) were significantly higher than that of carcinoma. No significant correlations were detected between DAX-1 immunoreactivity and amounts of aromatase mRNA. There was a statistically significant positive correlation between DAX-1 and ERalpha (P = 0.006) and ERbeta LI (P < 0.001). These findings suggest that DAX-1 may inhibit the proliferation and progression of endometrial carcinoma through inhibition of estrogenic actions, possibly by interacting with ER present in carcinoma cells, rather than regulating in situ steroidogenesis.