Ovarian metastases of intestinal-type gastric carcinoma: A clinicopathologic study of 4 cases with contrasting features to those of the Krukenberg tumor. Ovarian metastases of intestinal-type gastric adenocarcinomas are rare, and information on them is very limited compared with that on signet-ring cell carcinomas that result in the Krukenberg tumor. Four cases are reported herein. The patients averaged 55 years of age. In 3 patients, the ovarian metastases were identified several to 21 months after the diagnosis of the gastric primary, and the tumors were synchronous in the fourth. Two tumors were bilateral, 1 unilateral, and for 1, the laterality was unknown. The ovarian tumors were characteristically solid and cystic, with multinodular growth in 2. In 2 cases, the ovarian tumors had a pseudoendometrioid morphology with tubulo-glandular, cribriform, and papillary patterns they also had focal trabecular and insular patterns. Prominent necrosis was present, including segmental and intraluminal "dirty" necrosis. In the other 2 cases, the ovarian tumors had a mucinous appearance, 1 being dominantly cystic with occasional goblet cells and the other with prominent foveolar-type cells. Nuclei ranged from deceptively bland to highly atypical. Surface implants were identified in 2 cases. Two ovarian tumors examined expressed cytokeratin 7 and 20 but not estrogen receptor. Three patients with follow-up information all died within 1 year of the ovarian metastases. Although information is limited, our results suggest that metastatic spread to the ovary by intestinal-type gastric adenocarcinoma is usually seen in patients older than those with Krukenberg tumors, with a known history of gastric carcinoma, and with concomitant widespread disease. Involvement of the ovary by intestinal-type gastric carcinoma produces a microscopic picture distinctly different from that of a Krukenberg tumor. These metastatic intestinal-type tumors may be confused with metastases from other gastrointestinal sites that are more frequently the cause of pseudoendometrioid or mucinous metastases, and like such tumors may be confused with primary ovarian endometrioid and mucinous neoplasms.