Endometriosis involving the ureter. The Erlangen experience exemplified by two case reports. Endometriosis is a benign proliferation of discarded or ectopic endometrial mucus membranes which retain the histological features and biological reactions of uterine mucus membranes. This tissue is not capable of independent proliferation but is subject to the influence of estrogen progesterone. In this report we describe the clinical course of two patients with histologically proven endometriosis with participation of the uteral region and uronephrosis. CASE REPORT 1: Left-sided uronephrosis was diagnosed in a 36-year-old female during a sonographic examination for hypertension. Our gynaecologists obtained histological proof of endometriosis by laparoscopy. Two days after the laparoscopic detection of foci of endometriosis in the intestine, Douglas' pouch, ovaries as well as in the region of the left terminal ureter, a left percutaneous renal fistula was created under sonographic and radiological control. After resection of the afflicted section of the ureter, implantation of a new left ureter was performed by means of a psoas-hitch plasty. CASE REPORT 2: A 30-year-old female presented with a months-long history of dyspareunia, pain on palpation of the Douglas' pouch, occasional pain on bowel movements and back pain. In addition she had been trying for years to become pregnant. On sonography renal congestion grade III was detected. After admission and appropriate preparation, one week later an open laparotomy with lysis of intestinal as well as uterine adhesions, salpingectomy and, by the urologist, partial left uteral resection with new implantation by the psoas-hitch technique.Endometriosis of the urinary tract is a rare occurrence affecting 1 - 2 % of all endometriosis patients with the urinary bladder being the most commonly affected site. Endometriosis with involvement of the ureter is often diagnosed very late because of the rareness of this situation and its asymptomatic course. An individual therapy plan depending first of all on the patient's age, desire for children, and the extent of the endometriosis foci should always be attempted.