Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ligand reduced tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced interleukin-8 production and growth in endometriotic stromal cells. To evaluate the influence of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR gamma) ligand (pioglitazone) on tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)-induced interleukin-8 (IL-8) expression in endometriotic stromal cells (ESCs) and on proliferation of ESCs.Prospective study.Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Tottori University Hospital, Yonago, Japan.Twenty-seven patients who underwent laparoscopic surgery.The ESCs were obtained from the chocolate cyst linings of ovaries.The expression of PPAR gamma gene and protein was determined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunocytochemistry. We determined the effect of pioglitazone on the production of TNF-alpha-induced IL-8 protein in culture supernatant of ESCs using ELISA. The effect of pioglitazone on TNF-alpha-induced proliferation of ESCs was evaluated by 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine proliferation assay. The activation of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB in ESCs was evaluated by Western blot analyses and NF-kappaB transcription factor assays.Immunocytochemistry and RT-PCR revealed the expression of PPAR gamma gene and protein in ESCs. The PPAR gamma protein was predominantly located in the cell nucleus. Measurement of IL-8 protein by ELISA showed that adding TNF-alpha (100 pg/mL) significantly increased IL-8 protein. Treating ESCs with 0.1-10 microM of pioglitazone significantly reduced the TNF-alpha-induced IL-8 production. The presence of 0.1-10 microM of pioglitazone significantly suppressed growth of ESCs. The TNF-alpha increased the expression of phosphorylation of inhibitor kappaB (I kappaB). Adding pioglitazone (10 microM) did not influence the expression of phosphorylated inhibitor kappaB (I kappaB). The TNF-alpha markedly increased the intranuclear concentration of p65, and adding pioglitazone (10 microM) significantly reduced the concentration of p65.The present study demonstrates for the first time that PPAR gamma is expressed in ESCs, and that pioglitazone reduced IL-8 secretion and the proliferation of ESCs. The PPAR gamma ligand may be an attractive therapeutic agent for endometriosis.