Abdominal wall endometriosis in the cesarean section surgical scar: a potential diagnostic pitfall. The abdominal wall is an uncommon site of extrapelvic endometriosis. It usually develops in a previous surgical scar and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of any abdominal swelling. Classical symptoms of endometriosis may resemble abdominal wall lesions such as an incisional hernia, hematoma, granuloma, abscess or various soft tissue tumors therefore, a definitive preoperative diagnosis is not always easy to determine in every case. The aim of this article is to review the clinical findings, imaging results and histopathology of those of our patients who have had cesarean scar endometriosis.Patients diagnosed with abdominal wall endometriosis in their surgical scars from February 2008 to March 2010 were documented. The age, parity, symptoms, previous surgeries, initial diagnosis, diagnostic modalities, definitive operation, postoperative complications, histopathological evaluations and recurrences were recorded and analyzed.There were 18 patients with a mean age of 34.5 ± 9.6 years. All (100%) had a gradually growing nodular abdominal mass in or adjacent to their cesarean incision scars. This was often associated with pain (83.3%), either noncyclical (26.6%) or cyclical (73.3%) in nature. Ultrasonography (100%), computerized tomography with intravenous contrast (22.2%) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (66.6%) were performed on the patients. All patients underwent surgery and their masses were completely excised. The mean diameter of the removed masses was 3.9 ± 1.4 cm. The final pathological diagnosis for each case was abdominal wall endometriosis. Biannual follow-up examinations for two years revealed that each patient had a complete and uneventful recovery without recurrence.Abdominal wall endometriosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of masses located at cesarean section incision scars, which should be excised for definitive diagnosis and treatment.