Laparoscopic treatment of intrinsic endometriosis of the urinary tract and proposal of a treatment scheme for ureteral endometriosis. To discuss the contemporary management of urinary tract endometriosis and report our experience concerning laparoscopic treatment of intrinsic urinary tract endometriosis.We performed a retrospective, multicenter study of data collected from March 2006 to March 2011. Ten women were referred from gynecology, seven with ureteral involvement and hydronephrosis and three with bladder involvement, for urologic management. Of the 7 women with hydronephrosis, 5 were symptomatic, with recurrent urinary tract infections or pain. All 3 women with bladder endometriosis had hematuria. All patients had previously undergone unsuccessful hormonal therapy. Ureteral endometriosis was extensively investigated and treated by laparoscopic excision of endometriotic plaques and excision of intrinsic endometriosis of the ureter. Bladder endometriosis was treated by partial cystectomy. Some patients also had endometriosis in other organs and underwent, for example, wedge resection of sigmoid colon and oophorectomy.The median age of the patients was 30 years (range 25-44). Seven patients with intrinsic endometriosis of the ureter all had hydronephrosis and proximal hydroureter and underwent laparoscopic ureteral segment excision and either end-to-end, spatulated uretroureterostomy or ureteral reimplatation with psoas hitch. Three patients had hematuria, and cystoscopic biopsy of the bladder lesions confirmed intrinsic endometriosis. They were treated with laparoscopic partial cystectomy. One patient with bowel symptoms also underwent laparoscopic wedge resection of the sigmoid colon and another underwent oophorectomy for a chocolate cyst. Most patients also had peritoneal endometriotic plaques excised. We did not perform simple ureterolysis. No complications were encountered. The median follow-up was 26.5 months (range 4-53), with no return of symptoms or recurrence. The annual follow-up examinations included urinalysis and ultrasonography of the urinary tract.Intrinsic endometriosis can be successfully managed with minimally invasive techniques to provide relief of symptoms, protect renal function, and prevent recurrence. We describe a classification of ureteral endometriosis determined from staging investigations.