Expression of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) is reduced in permanent focal cerebral ischemic mouse brain using an adenoviral vector to induce overexpression of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist. Our previous studies have demonstrated that overexpression of recombinant human interleukin-1 receptor antagonist protein (IL-1ra) via gene transfer can reduce ischemic brain injury. However, the mechanism of action of IL-1ra in ischemia is unclear. Since interleukin-1 can up-regulate intercellular adhesion molecules in endothelium, the present study was designed to determine whether overexpression of the IL-1ra can reduce the expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) after ischemic injury. Normal saline or adenovirus vector (1x109 particles) encoding the human IL-1ra gene (Ad.RSVIL-1ra) or the Escherichia coli LacZ gene (Ad.RSVlacZ) was injected into the right lateral cerebral ventricle of adult CD-1 mice. After five days, permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) was achieved for 24 h using an intraluminal suture. Cerebral blood flow was monitored by transcranial laser Doppler flowmetry to verify the occlusion. ICAM-1 protein was quantified using Western blot analysis and localized using immunohistochemistry. After MCAO, surface blood flow in the ischemic hemisphere was decreased to 9-11% of the baseline. There were fewer ICAM-1 positive vessels in the ischemic cortex of the Ad.RSVIL-1ra transfected mice than in the Ad.RSVlacZ transfected and saline treated mice (138+/-19 vs. 249+/-25, 284+/-22, p<0.05). Western blot analysis shows that ICAM-1 protein decreased 50-60% in the Ad. RSVIL-1ra group compared to the other two groups. There were no significant differences in the numbers of positive vessels in the ischemic basal ganglia and contralateral hemisphere among the three groups. Our studies suggest that IL-1ra overexpression can down-regulate the expression of ICAM-1 in the ipsilateral cortex in ischemic mice. Interleukin-1 may play an important role in the activation of inflammatory reaction during focal cerebral ischemia by promoting leukocyte adhesion on the endothelium cells.