Microvascular changes during laboratory stimuli and structural haemodynamic indices: the role of pulse pressure. Office and ambulatory pulse pressure have been recognized as independent predictors of cardiovascular mortality and atherosclerosis in hypertensives as well as in normotensives. On the other hand, the vascular reactivity, in subjects with high pulsatile component of blood pressure, has not been studied yet. The purpose of our study was to identify the regional muscular hemodynamics and the cutaneous microvascular changes during laboratory stimuli in young adult very mild hypertensives with high pulse pressure. The cardiovascular (Finapres), the forearm vascular (plethysmography) and the microvascular cutaneous (laser-Doppler flowmetry and transcutaneous oximetry) responses to psychophysiological stimuli were measured. In addition, the hyperemic forearm vascular response to the ischaemic test was measured as haemodynamic index of vascular damage. We studied 15 very mild hypertensives with higher office pulse pressure and 15 patients with similar age, history of hypertension, metabolic parameters and systodiastolic blood pressure but lower pulse pressure values. Patients with high pulse pressure demonstrated reduced hyperemic response and increased residual vascular resistance at the forearm ischaemic test. They did not vary for all the parameters, except pulse pressure, during the baseline period but the total stress response, as residualized area-under-the-curve, was notably different. Patients with higher office pulse pressure demonstrated a significant increased heart rate, systolic and pulsatile blood pressure reactivity. On the contrary, they showed a reduced forearm and cutaneous blood flow response combined to a reduced transcutaneous tissutal oxygenation. The findings suggest that the increased pulsatile component of blood pressure might be associated to structural and functional vascular impairments since the very early stages of hypertension in young adults without metabolic disorders.