Hyperhomocysteinemia impairs angiogenesis in response to hindlimb ischemia. Hyperhomocysteinemia (HH) is an independent risk factor for atherosclerosis, including peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD). Because angiogenesis and collateral vessel formation are important self-salvage mechanisms for ischemic PAOD, we examined whether HH modulates angiogenesis in vivo in a rat model of hindlimb ischemia. Rats were divided into 3 groups: the control group was given tap water, the HH group was given water containing L-methionine (1 g x kg(-1) x d(-1)), and the HH+L-arg group was given water containing methionine (1 g x kg(-1) x d(-1)) and l-arginine (2.25 vol%). At day 14 of the dietary modifications, the left femoral artery and vein were excised, and the extent of angiogenesis and collateral vessels in the ischemic limb were examined for 4 weeks. Plasma homocysteine levels significantly increased (P:<0.001), and plasma and tissue contents of nitrite+nitrate as well as tissue cGMP levels significantly decreased in the HH group compared with the control group (P:<0.01). Laser Doppler blood flowmetry (LDBF) revealed a significant decrease in the ischemic/normal limb LDBF ratio in the HH group at days 7, 14, 21, and 28 (P:<0.01 versus control). Angiography revealed a significant decrease in the angiographic score in the HH group at day 14 (P:<0.001 versus control). Immunohistochemistry of ischemic tissue sections showed a significant reduction in the capillary density in the HH group (P:<0. 001 versus control). Oral l-arginine supplementation in rats with HH (HH+L-arg) restored the decreased plasma and tissue nitrite+nitrate and cGMP contents (P:<0.05) as well as angiogenesis, as assessed by LDBF (P:<0.05 versus HH), angiographic score (P:<0.01 versus HH), and capillary density (P:<0.001 versus HH). In summary, HH impaired ischemia-induced angiogenesis and collateral vessel formation in a rat model of hindlimb ischemia in vivo. The mechanism of the HH-induced impairment of angiogenesis might be mediated in part by a reduced bioactivity of endogenous NO in the HH state.