Chronic ischemia increases prostatic smooth muscle contraction in the rabbit. We studied the effect of chronic ischemia on prostatic smooth muscle contraction in the rabbit.New Zealand male rabbits weighing 3 to 3.5 kg were assigned to 2 groups. Group 1 (10 rabbits) underwent balloon endothelial injury of the iliac arteries and received a 0.5% cholesterol diet for 4 weeks and then a regular diet for 8 weeks. Control group 2 (10 rabbits) received a regular diet. After 12 weeks the animals were anesthetized. Iliac artery and prostate blood flow was recorded. Prostate tissues were prepared for isometric tension measurement, enzyme immunoassay to determine cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) release and histological examination.In group 1 atherosclerosis as well as a significant decrease in iliac artery and prostate blood flow were observed. Ischemia significantly increased prostatic tissue contraction, decreased cGMP release and led to capsular and stromal thickening, and epithelial atrophy. The alpha1-adrenoceptor blocker doxazosin and the phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor sildenafil citrate significantly decreased the contraction of control and ischemic tissues. Doxazosin was more effective in decreasing contractions when it was combined with sildenafil or the nitric oxide (NO) precursor L-arginine. In contrast, doxazosin was less effective when it was combined with the NO synthase inhibitor N omega-nitro-L-arginine or with the guanylate cyclase inhibitor methylene blue. Doxazosin significantly increased cGMP release in control tissues but not in ischemic tissues. Sildenafil significantly increased cGMP release in control and ischemic tissues.Ischemia increased prostatic smooth muscle contraction and led to marked structural damage. Stimulators of NO synthesis and cGMP production enhanced the efficacy of doxazosin in decreasing prostatic tissue contraction. Sildenafil decreased contractility and increased cGMP release. Increased smooth muscle tone and structural changes in the ischemic prostate may suggest a role for prostate ischemia in resistance to urinary flow independent of prostate size.