B-flow and color-coded B-flow in sonographic diagnosis of filiform stenosis of the internal carotid artery. To evaluate B-flow ultrasound in filiform (> 90 %) stenosis or occlusion of the internal carotid artery (ICA) and to compare it with other imaging modalities.Fifty patients with suspected occlusion or filiform stenosis of the internal carotid artery (ICA) on Doppler ultrasound were examined using B-flow ultrasound in either color-coded or brightness mode. The pre-, intra- and poststenotic flow phenomena were compared with color-coded duplex (CCD) and power Doppler (PD) ultrasound. A contrast agent (Optison) was injected in 15 cases. The results were compared with those of selective intraarterial DSA and in 15 cases also with those of MR-angiography (MRA). Twenty-two patients came to surgical intervention.Diagnosis of ICA occlusion was correct in all 22 cases using CCD, PD and B-flow ultrasound. A filiform ICA-stenosis was correctly seen in all 28 cases when using brightness-modulated or color-coded B-flow or contrast-enhanced power Doppler, but only in 15 cases when using CCD. All 9 ulcerated plaques with appositional thrombi were detected with B-flow, but only 4 cases with CCD. Pre-, intra- and poststenotic flow phenomena in the longitudinal scan were demonstrated simultaneously using color-coded B-flow in 27 out of 28 cases, but only in 17 cases using CCD and in 22 cases using PD. In the 15 cases given contrast agent, B-flow showed no superimposed vessel walls (reverberation artefacts) in the intra- and poststenotic area. In the longitudinal scan, true extend and degree of the distal stenosis of ICA carotid artery stenosis were more precisely measured with B-flow than with PD and CCD.The ultrasound diagnosis of filiform stenosis of the ICA is more reliable with B-flow ultrasound than with other ultrasound modalities. B-flow ultrasound has flow phenomena that are less angle-dependent and that are better demarcated against the vessel walls. It is free of superimposed vessel walls and offers better simultaneous intra- and poststenotic flow detection. The improved delineation of the plaque morphology by B-flow ultrasound enables a better evaluation of ulcerations and possible thrombi.