Tissue (muscle) oxygen saturation (StO2): a new measure of symptomatic lower-extremity arterial disease. Near-infrared spectroscopy provides a noninvasive method of measuring tissue oxygen saturation and has been used to monitor extremity compartment syndrome. Tissue O(2) saturation (StO(2)) is potentially useful in assessing patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD). The purposes of this feasibility study are to (1) explore the diagnostic sensitivity of StO(2) in subjects with PAD and symptoms of intermittent claudication (IC) compared with normal subjects, and (2) correlate the change in StO(2) during and after exercise with the ankle brachial index (ABI) in patients with IC. Material and methods Forty-nine subjects, 35 normal and 14 PAD, from two centers were evaluated in a prospective cross-sectional analysis comparing StO(2) by using the InSpectra tissue spectrometer and ABI at rest (baseline) and after treadmill exercise. Measurements were obtained at baseline and peak exercise (normal subjects) and at baseline, initial claudication distance (ICD) and absolute claudication distance (ACD) in PAD subjects. Endpoint values were the mean of 15 data points. Times to 50% of StO(2) recovery to baseline (T(50)) and complete recovery to baseline (T(100)) were measured. Receiver-operator characteristic curves were constructed to assess the sensitivity/specificity values associated with various StO(2) cut-points.The PAD patients were older (P =.0002) and 57% were male, compared with 37% males in the normal group. The ABI was 0.68 +/- 0.14 in PAD patients versus 1.14 +/- 0.08 in normal subjects (P <.0001). The baseline StO(2) was 65% in both groups. The peak exercise StO(2) was significantly lower and the absolute change in StO(2) and the percent change in StO(2) were significantly greater in PAD patients (P < 0.45). The T(50) and T(100) were longer in the PAD patients compared to normal subjects (P =.0001 and.002, respectively). A T(50) of >70 seconds yielded a sensitivity of 89% and a specificity of 85% for PAD.StO(2) is a new and potentially useful technique to evaluate patients with PAD. Resting StO(2) was similar in PAD-IC subjects and normals. There was a significantly greater drop in StO(2) and longer recovery times in PAD-IC subjects. Interestingly, StO(2) at the ICD and ACD was similar. StO(2) offers a different and perhaps more appropriate end point for diagnosis and monitoring of the management of patients with PAD, and may offer additional insight into the pathophysiology of exercise-induced muscle ischemia and its recovery.