Dehydrogenated alkaloids of ergot in treatment of peripheral vascular diseases. The dihydrogenated alkaloids of ergot, dihydroergocornine (DHO 180) and an equal mixture of dihydroergocornine, dihydroergocristine and dihydroergokryptine known as CCK 179 have been found to be therapeutic adjuncts in the medical treatment of peripheral vascular diseases. Their action is primarily that of adrenergic blockage, although depression of the brain stem is to be considered. The mixture of alkaloids (CCK 179) was found to be more effective than a single alkaloid, dihydroergocornine (DHO 180). A greater number of patients were benefited, relief of symptoms was greater and the dosage easier to establish. A favorable therapeutic response of clinical significance with the mixture was obtained in approximately 60 per cent of all cases investigated. It was of greater benefit in the organic occlusive diseases, where a larger percentage of favorable responses was obtained than in the purely vasospastic disorders. Orally and subcutaneously, CCK 179 exhibited vasodilating properties which compared favorably with paravertebral and peripheral nerve block, reflex heat, alcohol and sympathectomy. Surface temperatures were elevated, oscillometric readings increased and tolerance to cold increased in a statistically significant number of cases. Effects of sympathectomies were frequently enhanced. Following subcutaneous administration, increased surface temperatures of the extremities of one to two hours' duration were obtained in 90 per cent of all cases.Paresthesias, nocturnal cramps and intermittent claudication were improved. A sense of well-being was occasionally exhibited. Blood pressure and pulse rates were rarely affected. Blood pressure was lowered in normotensive patients, but was rarely changed in hypertensive patients. Symptoms of overdosage appeared after two to three months of continuous therapy. These were manifested by lowered surface temperatures, decreased tolerance to cold, return of intermittent claudication and occasionally by vague general discomfort. These symptoms disappeared on cessation of therapy. Improvement frequently followed. In only one case was there an immediate reaction. Following subcutaneous administration of CCK, blood pressure and pulse rate increased and oscillometric readings and surface temperatures decreased. Frequent courses of therapy with interruptions were necessary for maintenance of improvement.