Cardiac mass and function, carotid artery intima media thickness, homocysteine and lipoprotein levels in children and adolescents with growth hormone deficiency. Early atheromatic changes have been found in the carotid and the femoral arteries of young adults with growth hormone (GH) deficiency (GHD). It has been shown that adults with GHD have increased cardiovascular risk factors. The aim of this study was to compare atherosclerotic risk factors in children with GHD and a normal population.Twenty-five patients (10 girls, 15 boys) with GHD qualified for GH replacement treatment were included in the study. The control group consisted of 22 healthy children (11 girls, 11 boys) with no family history of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. Cardiac mass and function was evaluated by one-dimensional, two-dimensional echocardiography and the Doppler method. Common carotid intima-media thickness was measured with a linear probe (7.5 MHz). Lipid metabolism parameters (total cholesterol, HDL- and LDL-cholesterol, triglycerides), lipoprotein A (Lp(a)) and homocysteine levels were measured.Cardiac dimensions and systolic parameters were within normal values in both groups. The mean index of left ventricular mass (68.37 +/- 18.64 g/m2) in patients with GHD did not differ significantly compared to controls (68.48 +/- 15.56 g/m2). No significant differences between the study and control group were observed when comparing systolic and ejection fraction values. Significantly higher mean values of IVRT parameter were found (70.8 +/- 14.2 ms vs 64.09 +/- 8.54% ms p < 0.05). Other parameters characterizing systolic function were not significantly different. The mean concentration of total (178.28 +/- 31.1 mg/dl) and LDL-cholesterol (106 +/- 28.68 mg/dl) was significantly higher in patients with GHD than in controls (157.59 +/- 22.39 mg/dl, 84.54 +/- 22.01 mg/dlNo significant differences in parameters of cardiac systolic function and left ventricular mass were found between patients with GHD and healthy children. However, significantly higher Isovolumetric relaxation time (IVRT) values in the group of patients may suggest impaired diastolic function. Significantly elevated IMT values in the common carotid artery were observed in patients with GHD in comparison with healthy children, which may prove the onset of atheromatosis.