Small is beautiful: why profundaplasty should not be forgotten. Surgical profundaplasty (SP)is used mainly as an adjunct to endovascular management of peripheral vascular disease (PAD) today. Results from earlier series of profundaplasty alone have been controversial, especially regarding its hemodynamic effect. The question is: Can profundaplasty alone still be useful? Our aim was to evaluate its role in the modern management of vascular patients.This was a retrospective outcome study. A consecutive series of 97 patients (106 legs) from January 2000 through December 2003 were included. In 55 (52%) legs, the superficial femoral artery was occluded. These patients were included in the current analysis. Of these patients 14 (25%) were female. Mean age was 71 ((11) years. Nineteen (35%) were diabetic. The indication for operation was claudication in 29 (53%), critical leg ischemia (CLI) in 26 (47%), either with rest pain in 17 (31%), or ulcer/gangrene in 9 (16%). Endarterectomy with patch angioplasty with bovine pericardium was performed in all cases. Mean follow-up was 33 ( 14 months. Mean preoperative ankle brachial index (ABI) was 0.6. Sustained clinical efficacy was defined as upward shift of 1 or greater on the Rutherford scale without repeat target limb revascularization (TLR) or amputation. Mortality, morbidity, need for TLR, or amputation were separate endpoints.Postoperatively, ABI was significantly improved (mean = 0.7), in 24 (44%) by more than 0.15. At three years, cumulative clinical success rate was 80%. Overall, patients with claudication had a better outcome than those with CLI (p = 0.04). Two (4%) major amputations and 2 (4%) minor ones were performed, all in patients with CLI. None of the 9 (16%) ulcers healed.Profundaplasty is still a valuable option for patients with femoral PAD and claudication without tissue loss. It is a straightforward procedure that combines good efficacy with low complication rates. Further endovascular treatment may be facilitated. It is not useful for patients with the combination of critical ischemia and tissue loss.