Cardiovascular care with the new T-type calcium channel antagonist: possible role of attendant sympathetic nervous system inhibition. DIFFERENCES AMONG TYPES OF CALCIUM ANTAGONISTS: Calcium antagonists lower blood pressure, relieve angina pectoris and improve chronic heart failure, primarily through peripheral and coronary vasodilation. The debate as to whether short-acting, long-lasting (L)-channel calcium influx antagonists of the 1,4-dihydropyridine type might be involved in excess cardiac mortality has raised new controversies with respect to the cardiac morbidity and mortality outcome for all calcium antagonists. Different pharmacodynamic effects (short-acting vasodilation inducing pulsatile sympathetic reflex stimulation) may explain differences in outcome with calcium antagonist therapies. Calcium antagonists also differ in their direct effects on the sympathetic nervous system, and on its long endocrine arm, the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. These differential effects relate to the cardiac conduction system and ventricular ectopic activity, to cardiac and vascular remodelling and hypertrophy, and perhaps also to the development of hypertension. L-CHANNEL CALCIUM ANTAGONISTS: Depending on their pharmacodynamic characteristics, L-channel calcium antagonists of the dihydropyridine, verapamil or diltiazem type reflexly activate the sympathetic nervous system and blunt beta-adrenoceptor-mediated calcium influx, thus eliciting negative inotropy and activation of the renin-angiotensin system. Both verapamil and diltiazem slow down pacemaker activity and atrioventricular conduction. MIBEFRADIL: The new-class T-channel blocker mibefradil exhibits vascular selectivity and induces peripheral and coronary vasodilation. There is no reflex sympathetic activation and no negative inotropic effect. It increases coronary blood flow without increasing oxygen consumption and causes a slight slowing of the heart rate, thereby inducing diastolic relaxation. The latter improves subendocardial and small artery perfusion. There is a sympatholytic effect, owing to T-channel expression in neurones, sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes and Purkinje fibres. In experimental models, ventricular ectopic activity is reduced with mibefradil. The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and endothelin effects are blunted by T-channel inhibition. These and other factors reduce smooth muscle cell proliferation, hypertrophy and matrix deposition. T-type calcium channel inhibition, over and above its antihypertensive and anti-ischaemic effects, and afterload-reducing effects in chronic heart failure, offers the potential for a cardiovascular protective benefit, which may be critically related to interference with the sympathetic nervous system.