Preoperative color flow Doppler imaging for fibula free tissue transfers. Fibula osteocutaneous free tissue transfer to reconstruct the oromandibular complex is a widely recommended technique following oncologic resection. Preoperative determination of adequate perfusion to the donor extremity is necessary to assure lower extremity viability after flap harvest. Vascular variations and/or peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD) may exist whereby sacrifice of peroneal vessels can cause ischemia to the lower leg and foot. Additionally, variability of cutaneous perforators can make the fibula skin paddle viability unpredictable. Color flow Doppler (CFD) is a reliable modality to preoperatively assess the lower extremity in fibula osteocutaneous free tissue transfer patients. Prospective CFD examination of 38 consecutive patients (76 legs) considered for fibula free flap reconstruction was performed. A standard protocol was designed to evaluate the lower extremity vasculature and identify cutaneous perforators with CFD. Findings were studied with respect to flap choice, operative findings, and reconstruction outcomes. Number of cutaneous perforators and their impact on skin paddle design were also recorded. Color flow Doppler's ability to image peroneal vessels as well as determine collateral and distal perfusion were effective. CFD accurately identified bilateral vascular anomalies in one patient (2.6%), and significant arterial disease in three patients (7.9%). Cutaneous perforators were also accurately mapped and confirmed intraoperatively in 31 patients. In several instances, the information provided by the CFD examination altered flap selection, 4/38 patients (10.5%), or skin paddle design, 5/32 patients (15.6%). Color flow Doppler allowed successful fibula transfer in all the free flap candidates with normal exams. It has the advantages of low cost and no morbidity. CFD allows for accurate mapping of fibula cutaneous perforators which facilitates skin paddle design. We recommended the use of preoperative CFD in all patients being considered for fibular free flap surgery.