Is therapeutic conization sufficient to eliminate a high-risk HPV infection of the uterine cervix? A clinicopathological analysis. High-risk human papillomavirus infection plays a predominant role in the pathogenesis of preinvasive and invasive cervical cancer. One of the recognized treatments of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia is conization. The aim of this study was to evaluate if cold-knife conization is sufficient to eliminate cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and the associated high-risk HPV infection.Thirty-seven high-risk HPV-positive women who underwent cold-knife conization entered this study. The cervical sampling for HPV DNA was performed using the Digene cervical sampler. Smears were taken immediately before and 3 months after conization and the patients were followed-up for 2 years.High-risk HPV was identified in all 37 patients before conization. In 4 out of 37 patients a coincidence of low/intermediate and high-risk HPV types was present. A CIN II was detected in 5 out of 37, a CIN III in 25 out of 37 and a carcinoma in situ in 7 out of 37 cases. Follow-up at three months revealed that HPV was eradicated by conization in 73%. Patients with persistent HPV infection tended to be older compared to patients with eliminated HPV infection (mean: 34 vs. 36 years p = 0.25) and showed a higher rate of severe dysplasia (p = 0.07). A high HPV prevalence among patients with positive resection margins and/or recurrence disease was detected (83% and 100%, respectively). A statistically significant higher rate of positive margins and recurrences was observed in patients with persistent compared to patients with eliminated HPV infection (50% vs. 4%. p = 0.001 and 30% vs. 0%, p = 0.003).The data of the present study demonstrated that a high-risk HPV infection is successfully eliminated by conization in most cases. A high HPV prevalence in patients who had positive cone margins and/or disease recurrence was observed. Patients with persisting HPV infection after conization show statistically significant higher rates of positive resection margins and are at increased risk of disease recurrence. HPV testing seems to be, therefore, a valuable tool to monitor the therapeutic results of conization and to discriminate patients who have a higher risk of disease recurrence.