Risk factors inducing the persistence of high-risk genital papillomaviruses in the normal cervix. To evaluate the risk factors associated with persistence of human papillomaviruses (HPV) types 16, 18, and 33 in the normal cervix, a prospective study was carried out in Belgium of 323 women without cytological evidence of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. Demographic and clinical data were obtained by interview, and HPV DNA was assayed in cervical-swab specimens using the Fast Multiplex Polymerase Chain Reaction-based screening and confirmatory tests. A multivariable linear regression model was constructed using four well-known risk factors: the use of an oral contraceptive which is either triphasic, or monophasic and containing ethynylestradiol in association with either norethysterone, or levonorgestrel, or lynestrenol, or gestoden, or estrogenic and containing estriol (P = 8 x 10(-5)), a positive history of genital herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection (P = 10(-4)), an age inferior or equal to 30 years (P = 0.012), and cigarette smoking (P = 0.020). Crude and adjusted relative risks were calculated for each HPV persistence predictor. The data and the results of the molecular biology of high-risk genital HPVs are consistent with the hypothesis that the use of an oral contraceptive containing simultaneously and continuously both a potent estrogen and a high activity progestative is necessary to enhance significantly HPV transcription. These observations are also consistent with the hypothesis that the oral contraceptives and HSV genital infection are responsible for HPV persistence in the normal cervix but not for HPV-induced cervical transformation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)This prospective study evaluated the risk factors associated with persistence of human papillomaviruses (HPVs) types 16, 18, and 33 in the normal cervix.  Cervical specimens were obtained from 323 women attending the cervical cancer screening clinic classified as normal on the basis of exfoliative cytology.  Demographic, sexual, behavioral, and clinical data were obtained by interview.  Crude and adjusted relative risks were calculated for each HPV persistence predictor.  The data and the results of the molecular biology of high-risk genital HPVs were consistent with the hypothesis that the use of an oral contraceptive containing simultaneously and continuously both a potent estrogen and a high activity progestative was necessary to enhance significantly HPV transcription.  A relatively weak correlation was found for cigarette smoking.  In addition, it is noted that several other risk factors associated with young age, such as a high number of sexual partners, is also a predictor of acquiring HPV.