Persistent high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) infections as surrogate endpoints of progressive cervical disease. Potential new endpoint for efficacy studies with new-generation (non-HPV 16/18) prophylactic HPV vaccines. Recent data indicate that persistent HR-HPV infections represent a significantly increased risk of developing incident high-grade CIN and cervical cancer. Accordingly, 6-month (6M+) or 12-month (12M+) type-specific persistence of HR-HPV have been proposed as powerful surrogates of progressive disease. Because of substantial practical impact in future HPV vaccine trials using non-HPV 16/18 vaccines, studies on HR-HPV persistence as a surrogate endpoint of progressive CIN have been subject to a comprehensive meta-analyses recently. The present communication was solicited to bring this important and timely topic to the awareness of the readers, in a format consisting of a review of the recent literature, supplemented with the author's own experience from different studies. Based on a large number of relevant studies, there remains little doubt that persistence of HR-HPV for 6+ or 12+ months is associated with a significantly increased risk of developing incident high-grade CIN. However, some data also disclosed several important issues that need to be carefully considered and/or adequately resolved before adopting 6M+ or 12M+ HR-HPV persistence as a surrogate of progressive disease. These include i) definitions of HPV persistence, ii) HPV detection techniques and iii) testing intervals and iv) length of follow-up, as well as v) diagnosis of the surrogate endpoints, and vi) other study characteristics, including vii) the type of reference category used in calculating the risk estimates. All these issues are critically discussed in the present communication. Of major impact seems to be the reference category used to calculate these risk estimates, as evident from the NIS-LAMS cohort. Taken together, it is suggested that in all future studies using the 6M+ or 12M+ HR-HPV persistence as a surrogate endpoint of progressive disease, a "gold standard" should be used in calculating the risk estimates. In addition to deciding, 1) whether to use 6M+ or 12M+ persistence criteria, and 2) cytological, histological or combined surrogate endpoints (SIL, CIN1, CIN2, CIN/SIL), one should 3) use exclusively the HPV negative reference group in calculating the risk estimates for viral persistence endpoints. This is supported by the data from the recent meta-analysis as well as from the author's combined NIS-LAMS cohort, both implicating that the most consistent association to progressive disease is obtained when women with persistent HR-HPV are compared with HPV-negative women. It is the conviction of this author that the two other reference categories (HPV transient and HPV mixed outcome) are far too heterogeneous and subject to potential misclassifications to give consistent and reproducible risk estimates for HR-HPV persistence as a surrogate endpoint of progressive CIN.