Study on the clinicopathologic features of 88 cases with mucinous cervical adenocarcinoma. To analyze the clinicopathologic features of mucinous cervical adenocarcinoma (ADC) and supply some reference for its diagnosis, treatment and prognosis.Totally 88 cases with primary mucinous ADC diagnosed between January 2003 and December 2007 in Jiangxi Maternal and Child Health Hospital were retrieved. Their clinical and pathological data were reviewed and analyzed.Among 88 patients, 70 cases of them were endocervical ADC, 11 cases were minimal deviation adenocarcinoma (MDA), 2 cases were intestinal subtype and 5 cases were villoglandular ADC. The positive rate of cervical Pap smear cytology was only 28% (10/36). There were 10 cases were performed several times of cervical Pap smear cytology test and biopsies, while still no abnormality was found. Finally, 7 cases of them were diagnosed by cervical excisional biopsy and endocervical curettage, including 5 cases with endocervical ADC and 2 cases with MDA 2 cases (1 case with stage Ib1 endocervical ADC and 1 case with Ib1 MDA) were diagnosed by cold knife conization, and 1 case with stageIb1 endocervical were diagnosed by uteroscopically directed biopsy. The overall 5-year survival rate was 60.0%. Using univariate analysis results showed that age (P = 0.046), stage (P = 0.007), tumor size (P = 0.007) and therapeutic methods (P = 0.009) were significant prognostic factors. Multivariate analysis showed that therapeutic methods was an independent predictor for survival (P = 0.013). Stage IIb-IIIb MDA patients occupied 7/11 of all MDA patient, while there was only one such patient of 5 cases with villoglandular ADC. The overall HPV infection rate was 65% (57/88), and there was no obvious differences about the HPV infection rates among different types of mucinous ADC.Cervical smear cytology is of little significance to the diagnosis of mucinous cervical adenocarcinoma. Early stage mucinous ADC is difficult to be detected, especially for MDA. Cervical excisional biopsy, endocervical curettage, cold knife conization, uteroscope are beneficial to its diagnosis. Therapeutic methods is an important prognostic factor for mucinous ADC and comprehensive treatment should be given to those patients with risky postsurgical factors.