Predictive Value of Class III D Cytological Diagnosis (Munich II, Low and Moderate Dysplasia) and Additional High-risk HPV Testing. The validity of cytological diagnostic procedures for the detection of pre- and early cervical cancer stages is limited due to biological conditions, the uncertainty of cell sampling, and the subjective nature of microscopic assessment. Particularly in class III D cases (Munich II) this can lead to a stigmatization of patients and uncertainty with regard to further clinical follow-up and therapy. Prior to carrying out additional investigations such as high-risk HPV testing or the examination of biomarkers, the positive predictive values of patients with a class III D cytological diagnosis need to be assessed in routine practice. To this end, all relevant data from patients from our practice classed as class III D (pap smears) between 2002 and 2008 (n = 1190 38.2 % histological diagnosis = therapeutic endpoint) and their current HPV status were recorded. Cytology, histology, persistence, age and follow-up were recorded. The database was used for comparative statistical analysis. Overall, the positive predictive value of conventional pap smear for CIN 2+ was calculated to be 32.3 % (mean follow-up: 39.7 months). The following values were calculated for high-risk HPV testing: sensitivity 94.8 %, specificity 39 %, positive predictive value 42.8 %, negative predictive value 94 %. The additional information obtained from high-risk HPV testing resulted in a significantly better positive predictive value only in patients older than 40 years. However, there was no evidence for an individual risk stratification approach which would reduce uncertainty in the management of III D patients.Die Aussagekraft zytologischer Diagnosen im Rahmen der Erkennung von Vor- und Frühstufen des Zervixkarzinoms ist durch biologische Gegebenheiten, Unsicherheiten in der Materialerfassung und den subjektiven Charakter der mikroskopischen Beurteilung eingeschränkt. Besonders bei der Gruppe III D der Münchner Nomenklatur II führt dies zur Stigmatisierung von Patientinnen und Unsicherheiten hinsichtlich weiterer Kontroll- und Therapiemaßnahmen. Vor einem sinnvollen Einsatz von Zusatzuntersuchungen (z. B. High-Risk-HPV-Testung, Biomarker) erscheint es nötig, den positiven prädiktiven Wert der Gruppe III D im Routinematerial zu ermitteln. Dazu wurden in der Zeit von 2002 bis 2008 alle Patientinnen unserer Praxis mit der Erstdiagnose III D im Abstrichpräparat und aktuell bekanntem HPV-Status mit allen relevanten Daten (n = 1190, 38,2 % histologisch geklärt anlässlich der Therapie mittels Konisation bzw. Biopsie vor Laservaporisation) erfasst und der weitere zytologische bzw. histologische Verlauf auswertbar dokumentiert. Es werden vergleichende Auswertungen unter Einbeziehung von Alter, Verlaufsdauer und Persistenz von III D pro Patientin vorgestellt. Insgesamt errechnet sich für die konventionelle Zytologie ein positiver Prädiktionswert für CIN 2+ von 32,3 % bei einer durchschnittlichen Verlaufsdauer von 39,7 Monaten. Für die High-Risk-HPV-Testung finden sich folgende Werte (%): Sensitivität 94,8, Spezifität 39, positiver prädiktiver Wert 42,8 und negativer prädiktiver Wert 94. Die zusätzliche Information aus dem High-Risk-HPV-Test führt bei Patientinnen der Altersgruppen ab 40 Jahre zu statistisch signifikant besserer positiver Prädiktion. Eine individuelle Risikostratifizierung ist für die III D-Patientinnen insgesamt nicht ableitbar.