Repeated pancreatectomy after pancreatoduodenectomy. When pancreatic duct dilatation is found in the patient having undergone pancreatoduodenectomy (PD), observation is chosen in most cases. Similarly, recurrent tumor in the remnant pancreas of invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) of the pancreas is seldom indicated for resection. We have aggressively performed repeated pancreatectomy for these cases and obtained good results.Repeated pancreatectomy after PD was performed for three types of circumstances: (1) pancreatodigestive anastomotic stricture (2) neoplasm after intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN)Resection of anastomosis and reanastomosis was performed for pancreatodigestive stricture in four patients. Symptoms derived from pancreatitis in three patients resolved by the second operation and did not recur during follow-up. None of the four patients required pancreatic enzyme substitution because of clinically overt malabsorption, and the defecation frequency of the four patients was within twice a day. Mild diabetes mellitus has been identified in only one patient who had diabetes mellitus before the second surgery. Completion pancreatectomy and pancreatic tail resection was performed for recurrence in two patients and IDC in one patient, respectively, after PD for IPMN. Intrapancreatic recurrences of IPMN in two patients existed in the main pancreatic ducts. As CT revealed pancreatic duct dilatation but not intraductal tumors, recurrences were not correctly diagnosed before the second operation. Completion pancreatectomy was performed for recurrence of IDC in two patients. One patient who underwent completion pancreatectomy for recurrence of IDC survived 66/44 months after the first/second operation.Repeated pancreatectomy should be performed for patients with pancreatodigestive anastomotic stricture to preserve remnant pancreatic function and for patients with neoplasm or pancreatic duct dilatation after PD for IPMN, and repeated pancreatectomy for recurrence of IDC might be indicated for selected patients.