Imaging of neuroendocrine gastroenteropancreatic tumours. The role of imaging in functioning endocrine tumours (FETs) is primarily to detect the tumour, that is, to verify lesion number and location. Radiological detection of carcinoid tumours is limited by typical tumour location throughout the gastrointestinal tract or appendix and is therefore dependent on the tumour being large enough to make it recognisable in that site. The most common FET is insulinoma, which is commonly characterised by the typical appearance of a hypervascular lesion at multidetector-row computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. A particularly important role is played by intraoperative ultrasound in defining the exact number of lesions, their relationship with adjacent vascular structures and the pancreatic duct for the purposes of correct surgical planning (enucleation or resection). In the setting of nonfunctioning endocrine tumours (NFETs), which manifest late as large masses causing compression symptoms or as incidental findings, imaging is not primarily aimed at tumour detection, as this is relatively easy given the large size of the lesions. Rather, its role is to characterise the tumour and, in particular, to differentiate pancreatic NFET from ductal adenocarcinoma, as in comparison, malignant NFETs have a more favourable prognosis (5-year survival rate 40% compared with 3%-5% for adenocarcinoma) and therefore require different treatment approaches. As NFET are often malignant, they also require accurate staging and appropriate follow-up. In 80% of cases, NFETs have a "typical" imaging appearance: location in the pancreatic head, large dimensions (diameter between 5 and 15 cm, >10 cm in 30% of cases), capsule, sharp and regular margins owing to the expansile and noninfiltrative growth pattern, solid density and arterial hypervascularity. Some 20% of NFETs display different imaging characteristics ("atypical" appearance) as a result of arterial hypovascularity due to the presence of abundant fibrous stroma. Lastly, a small percentage of NFETs has yet a different appearance ("unusual") due to the cystic nature and/or diffuse location throughout the pancreatic parenchyma.