Furosemide diminishes ¹⁸F-fluoroethylcholine uptake in prostate cancer in vivo. (18)F-Fluoroethylcholine ((18)F-FECh) is excreted via the urinary system with high activity accumulation in the urinary bladder. Furosemide and oral hydration can be administered concomitantly to reduce urinary activity to provide better detectability of retroperitoneal and pelvic lesions. Currently it is unknown if there is any effect of furosemide on (18)F-FECh uptake in organs, tissues and tumour lesions and the extent to which image quality along the urinary tract may be improved by furosemide.We retrospectively analysed 217 (18)F-FECh PET/CT examinations from 213 patients with known prostate cancer (PCa), performed either with oral hydration (109) or furosemide 20 mg together with oral hydration (108). Maximum (18)F-FECh uptake in different organs, tissues, lymph nodes and osseous metastases was quantified in terms of standardized uptake value (SUV) in a volume of interest and compared between the two groups. To characterize the impact of furosemide on lesion detectability a three-point rating scale was used to assess the presence of focal activity spots in the ureters and of perivesicular artefacts.Patient characteristics and distribution of tumour lesions were well balanced between the two groups. Overall, SUVmax values from normal organs were increased after furosemide compared to the values in patients scanned without furosemide. Significant changes were observed in the salivary glands, liver, spleen, pancreas, kidneys, gluteus muscle and perirenal fat. SUVmax values were significantly decreased after furosemide in lymph node metastases (SUVmax 4.81 ± 2.68 vs. 6.48 ± 4.22, p = 0.0006), but not in osseous metastases. Evaluation of image quality along the urinary tract revealed significantly better depiction of the perivesicular space and significantly less focal tracer accumulation in the ureters in patients receiving furosemide, but the number of detected lymph nodes was not significantly different.Furosemide administration reduced choline uptake in tumour lesions, especially significant in pelvic lymph node metastases. Although furosemide administration improved image quality, optimal image quality may also be obtained by adequate hydration without the risk of diminishing choline uptake in PCa lesions. Therefore a controlled hydration protocol seems more appropriate than administration of furosemide.