Tissue polypeptide-specific antigen (TPS) in monitoring palliative treatment response of patients with gastrointestinal tumours. The new proliferation marker, tissue polypeptide-specific antigen (TPS), representing the specific epitope M3 of tissue polypeptide antigen, and three conventional biochemical markers, CEA, CA 19-9 and CA-195, were analysed in 69 patients with advanced gastrointestinal tumours. The aim of our study was to assess the clinical relevance of these markers and to determine whether their use in monitoring the course of the disease can reduce the need for serial imaging procedures. At baseline, pathologically elevated TPS levels occurred in 90% of patients. CEA was elevated in 73%, CA 19-9 in 59% and CA-195 in 68%. With a detection rate of > 90% in both advanced colorectal (n = 37) and pancreatic cancer (n = 20), and of 75% in gastric cancer (n = 12), TPS was the most sensitive marker in all three tumour types included in this analysis. Serial evaluations of TPS and other biochemical markers were available in 39 patients undergoing palliative systemic chemotherapy. Treatment with a fluorouracil-based regimen resulted in a partial response in 5/27 patients with colorectal cancer, whereas 2/12 patients with pancreatic cancer responded to therapy with a high-dose epirubicin combination regimen. All other patients had disease stabilisation or suffered from progressive disease. When compared with the results of serial CT scanning, the TPS correlated best with the course of the disease, the positive predictive value being 75% for a partial response, 96% for stable disease and partial response combined and 100% for progressive disease. The corresponding values for CEA were 50%, 81% and 62% and were similar to those for CA 19-9 and CA-195. In summary, TPS seems to represent a sensitive, clinically relevant and specific marker of proliferative activity in gastrointestinal cancer. According to our preliminary results in colorectal and pancreatic cancer, TPS may be considered as the primary means of monitoring treatment, and imaging reduced to confirm the response.