Peripheral blood mononuclear cell of neonates infected with hepatitis B virus. To study the mechanism and significance of peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) of neonates infected with hepatitis B virus (HBV).Eighty-four HBsAg-positive and HBeAg-negative mothers and their newborns were recruited in this study. Sixteen hepatitis B virus markers (HBVM)-negative mothers and their neonates were served as control. All these cases had no symptoms of hepatitis, serious pregnancy complications and preexisting disease. Age, gestational age and the method of delivery were matched in two groups (P > 0.05). Five ml blood samples were taken from the peripheral vein of the pregnant women before delivery and from neonates within 24 hours after birth, before inoculation of HBV vaccine (HBVac). Serum and PBMC were isolated from 2 ml and 3 ml samples respectively. The sera, PBMC and the last supernatant of PBMC washing were stored at -80 degrees C. HBVM of neonates were detected by using enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). HBV DNA in serum, PBMC and the last supernatant of PBMC washing of mothers and neonates were detected by using a nested-polymerase chain reaction (n-PCR). Two pairs of oligonucleotide primers, the outer primer pair for first PCR and inner primer pair for second PCR, designed according to region S of HBV genome were synthesized at Shanghai Cell Biology Institute of Chinese Academy of Sciences. The neonates who were HBV DNA positive in PBMC but HBsAg and HBV DNA negative in serum were followed up for one year, HBsAb in serum and HBV DNA in PBMC were observed in the neonates.(1) The positive rate of HBV DNA in 84 serum and PBMC of mothers were 53.57% and 40.48%, respectively (chi(2) = 2.891, P > 0.05). All the results were weakly positive. (2) Twenty-four (28.57%) newborns in the study group were infected, including 7 who were only HBV DNA positive in serum, 11 only HBV DNA positive in PBMC and 6 in both, all the results were weakly positive. HBsAg was negative in all the newborns. None of the neonates in control group was infected with HBV. There was significant difference between the two groups (chi(2) = 4.55, P < 0.05). (3) Of all the study cases, 11 (13.10%) neonates were HBV DNA weakly positive in PBMC but HBsAg and HBV DNA negative in serum. Of their mothers, 5 were only HBV DNA positive in serum, 2 only positive in PBMC and 4 positive in both serum and PBMC. Seven of the 11 neonates were followed up for one year and at the end of follow-up, 4 were HBsAb positive and HBV DNA negative in PBMC 3 were HBsAb negative, and among the 3 cases HBV DNA in 2 was still positive in PBMC, HBsAg and HBV DNA in serum were negative in all the 7 neonates.(1) HBV DNA positivity either in serum or in PBMC in mothers can result in infection of PBMC with HBV in their neonates. (2) PBMC infection with HBV can exist for a long time in neonates while HBsAg and HBV DNA are negative in serum, and may result in vaccination failure in neonates.