Clinical features, epidemiology, antimicrobial resistance, and exotoxin genes (including that of Panton-Valentine leukocidin) of gentamicin-susceptible methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (GS-MRSA) isolated at a paediatric teaching hospital in New South Wales, Australia. To describe the epidemiological, clinical, and laboratory features of gentamicin-susceptible methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (GS-MRSA) seen at a paediatric teaching hospital.Patients from whom GS-MRSA was isolated between 1 January 2001 and 31 December 2002 were enrolled. Retrospective chart review was performed. Susceptibility testing was performed with the Vitek2 system PCR confirmed methicillin resistance. Phage typing and pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) was performed (utilising MLST/SCCmec-defined control strains). PCR detection of tst, luk-PV, and entA-entE was performed.Eighty-five per cent of all Staphylococcus aureus isolates during the study period were methicillin-sensitive, and 15% were MRSA (9% GS-MRSA, 6% gentamicin resistant-MRSA). 100 GS-MRSA infections in 98 children were identified: 59 cases of skin/soft tissue, four bone and joint, four surgical site infections, three pneumonia, eight other types, and 22 represented colonisation. Ninety-nine isolates were non-multidrug resistant, but 17 strains were resistant to erythromycin, 7 to tetracyclines, 12 to ciprofloxacin, 11 to fusidic acid, 1 each to rifampicin and mupirocin. 44 isolates were Oceania strain (ST30-MRSA-IV), 20 were Queensland strain (ST93-MRSA-IV), ten were UK EMRSA-15 (ST22-MRSA-IV), eight were WA MRSA-1 (ST1-MRSA-IV), two were WA MRSA-5 (ST8-MRSA-IV), one was WA MRSA-2 (ST78slv-MRSA-IV), one was WA MRSA-15 (ST59-MRSA-IV), and the remainder were sporadics. Twenty patients were Pacific Islanders, of whom 12 had the Oceania strain ten were Aboriginal, of whom eight had the Queensland strain. Sixty-eight isolates possessed luk-PV, including all Queensland strains and 91% of Oceania strains. Enterotoxin genes were detected in 25% of the isolates, and tst was detected in four isolates.GS-MRSA is a significant paediatric problem in New South Wales: two minority groups are over-represented, multiple epidemic strains were detected, most community strains possess luk-PV, and many isolates are multidrug resistant.