Clinical manifestations and outcome in HIV-infected young infants presenting with acute illness in Durban, South Africa. In young infants, early development of symptomatic HIV infection increases the risk of morbidity and mortality. A prospective study was conducted over a 1-year period in a region with a high burden of HIV in order to describe the clinical presentation of HIV infection in infants aged between 0 and 59 days on attendance at hospital and the factors associated with the need for urgent hospital management.Sick young infants presenting to the King Edward VIII Hospital, Durban between February 2003 and January 2004 were enrolled. After systematic evaluation by a primary health worker, an experienced paediatrician determined the primary diagnosis and need for urgent hospital management. Comparisons of these assessments were stratified by HIV status. Children were classified as HIV-uninfected (HIV ELISA-negative), HIV-exposed-but-uninfected (HIV ELISA-positive and HIV RNA PCR-negative), HIV-infected (HIV ELISA-positive and HIV viral load >400 copies/ml).Of 925 infants enrolled, 652 (70·5%) had their HIV status determined: 70 (10·7%) were HIV-infected, 271 (41·6%) HIV-exposed-but-uninfected, and 311 (47·7%) HIV-uninfected. Factors associated with an increased probability of being HIV-infected included if the mother had children from more than one sexual partner, if the infant had had contact with a tuberculosis-infected person or if the HIV-infected mother and/or her exposed infant failed to receive nevirapine prophylaxis. Signs of severe illness were more frequently encountered in HIV-infected than in HIV-exposed-but-uninfected infants, including the prevalence of chest in-drawing (20·3% vs 8·8%, p = 0·004) and severe skin pustules (18·6% vs 8·6%, p = 0·01). Among infants requiring urgent hospital management, observed or reported feeding difficulties and severe skin pustules were more common in HIV-infected than uninfected infants. More HIV-infected infants (12·9%) required hospitalisation than those who were HIV-exposed-but-uninfected (7·7%) or uninfected (7·4%). Primary diagnoses of pneumonia, sepsis or oral thrush were more frequently seen in HIV-infected than exposed-but-uninfected or HIV-uninfected children.Early recognition and triaging of infants suspected of having HIV infection provides an opportunity for early diagnosis and treatment which could prevent the adverse impact of rapidly progressive HIV disease.