Acute bacterial meningitis cases diagnosed by culture and PCR in a children's hospital throughout a 9-Year period (2000-2008) in Athens, Greece. Acute bacterial meningitis is one of the most severe infectious diseases, affecting mainly infants and, secondarily, older children and adolescents. Diagnosis in the early stages is often difficult and despite treatment with appropriate antibiotic therapy, the case fatality rate remains high. In the present study, the incidence of bacterial meningitis was registered in a general pediatric hospital in Athens, Greece, during a 9-year period (2000-2008), and the use of molecular methods in the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis versus the conventional cultural methods was evaluated. The impact of vaccination against meningitis-causing bacteria on the incidence of bacterial meningitis was also assessed.From a total of 1833 children hospitalized with suspected clinical symptoms and signs of meningitis, all cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood samples were analyzed by white blood cell (WBC) count, measurement of glucose, protein, and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, as well as by conventional bacteriologic culture methods. If samples showed altered CSF markers that were consistent with meningitis in general, they were further investigated by PCR for bacterial pathogens.Of the 1833 patients, 289 (15.76%) were found to be positive for meningitis after CSF examination, based on white blood cell count and differentiation, glucose, protein, and CRP. Fifty-six of the 289 (19.37%) had confirmed bacterial meningitis, as diagnosed by either culture and/or PCR. Of these 56 cases, 44 (78.6%) were detected only by PCR, and 12 cases (21.4%) were confirmed by PCR and culture. The predominant microorganism was Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B (n = 40 71.4%), followed by Streptococcus pneumoniae not typed [NT] (n = 7In Greece, according to data from the National Meningitis Reference Laboratory, vaccination against N. meningitidis serogroup C since 2001 led to a 10-fold decrease in the incidence of meningitis cases, vaccination against S. pneumoniae serotypes included in the heptavalent conjugate vaccine since 2005 led to a 3.4-fold incidence decrease, and vaccination against H. influenzae type b since 1992 led almost to an absence of cases. In the population of the present study, none of the cases were caused by the above-mentioned vaccine pathogens, except for one S. pneumoniae serotype 18C case with no history of past vaccination. The introduction of vaccination against meningitis-causing bacteria has drastically decreased the emergence of the infection. The improved molecular amplification assays proved to be superior to conventional bacteriologic methods and should be introduced into routine diagnosis, as well as the epidemiologic surveillance of bacterial meningitis.