Outcomes of invasive meningococcal serogroup B disease in children and adolescents (MOSAIC): a case-control study. Serogroup B meningococcal disease is the commonest cause of meningitis and septicaemia in high-income countries. Assessment of new serogroup B meningococcal vaccines is hampered by a scarcity of data on the burden of disease in survivors. We aimed to estimate the disease burden in children having survived serogroup B meningococcal disease.In this case-control study, we recruited children from the UK National Meningococcal Registry between May, 2008, and September, 2010. Eligible children were survivors who had had serogroup B meningococcal disease confirmed by culture or PCR and were aged 1 month to 13 years at disease. Age-matched and sex-matched controls were recruited through the family doctor of the children who had the meningococcal disease. Physical, psychological, neurocognitive, and educational outcomes were assessed through a standardised interview with validated instruments. We did matched analyses using generalised estimating equations (GEE). Researchers were masked to the children's serogroup B meningococcal status.Of the 537 children who had serogroup B meningococcal disease and were available for recruitment, 245 were assessed. 328 controls were also recruited 221 controls were matched with a case and 107 were additional unmatched controls. The mean age was 6路5 (SD 2路8) years in children with serogroup B meningococcal disease and 6路9 (2路9) in controls. In the full sample, children who had serogroup B meningococcal disease were more likely than controls to have bilateral sensorineural hearing loss of 40 dB or more (unmatched 11 [5%] of 232 children with meningococcal disease vs three [<1%] of 318 controlsMost children survive serogroup B meningococcal disease without major sequelae. However, about a tenth have major disabling deficits and more than a third have one or more deficits in physical, cognitive, and psychological functioning, with the additional burden of memory deficits and executive function problems. These findings should help to guide assessments of new vaccines and suggest that all survivors of serogroup B meningococcal disease should be screened for psychological disorders and cognitive deficits in addition to hearing loss.Meningitis Trust and Big Lottery Fund, UK.