Microsporum canis: Current data on the prevalence of the zoophilic dermatophyte in central Germany. Microsporum (M.) canis, whose source of infection is mostly cats, is still considered as the most frequently occurring zoophilic dermatophyte in Germany and Europe. In distinct areas of Germany, the zoophilic dermatophyte Trichophyton (T.) anamorph of Arthroderma (A.) benhamiae also presents a frequent and emerging causative agent of dermatophytoses.Over a period of 3 years, from March 2010 to March 2013, skin samples from scalp, face, trunk, and limbs were investigated using mycological cultivation and by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for dermatophytes. Materials originated in particular from the German Free States Saxony and Thuringia, and from the Federal State Saxony-Anhalt, but also included samples submitted from around Germany. The cultural detection of dermatophytes was performed on Sabouraud's 4% glucose agar with and without cycloheximide. For dermatophyte DNA detection, a uniplex PCR-ELISA was used.In all, 8464 samples from a total of 7680 patients were investigated. In 114 (1.5%) of 7680 patients, M. canis could be detected both by culture and/or PCR. M. canis was detected culturally in 100 samples, in 107 samples by PCR, in 91 samples both culturally and by PCR. For 12 patients, only cultural detection was done (without PCR). Also detected was tinea corporis due to M. canis in 59 patients, tinea capitis 8, tinea faciei 5, and tinea manus 2 patients. Of the patients, 45% were younger than 20 years, 42% were 20-49 years old, and 13% were 50 years or older. In comparison, T. anamorph of A. benhamiae was detectable by culture and/or PCR in 231 of 7680 patients (2.9%). M. canis was the second most common zoophilic dermatophyte.M. canis is still a frequent zoophilic dermatophyte in Germany. Since a few years ago, a rise of infections due to T. anamorph of A. benhamiae has been observed in Germany and other European countries. At least in distinct regions of Germany, this zoophilic dermatophyte, which is transferred from guinea pigs to human beings, currently seems to be more frequent when compared to M. canis.