Suppressing bladder artifacts in bone SPECT of the pelvis. Bladder-filling reconstruction artifacts have a detrimental effect on the image quality of pelvic bone single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Using a simple protocol consisting of forced diuresis coupled with intravenous (IV) hydration, this study was undertaken to obtain an artifact-free pelvic SPECT after discarding the residual urinary activity.Thirty patients were enrolled. In group I, pelvic SPECT was performed directly after normal void, whereas in group II, SPECT was preceded by IV injection of 0.5 mg/kg furosemide (maximum 40 mg) coupled with IV infusion of 500 cc of physiologic saline. Bladder-filling reconstruction artifacts were analyzed in group I patients, who had their images reconstructed using both filtered backprojection and iterative algorithms, both qualitatively and quantitatively by means of regions of interest (ROIs) drawn around the artifact-bearing bone areas as well as the corresponding contralateral sites. For group II patients, besides visual analysis, ROIs were placed over the sites corresponding to those of the group I patients. In every patient, total counts of each ROI were normalized to a reference ROI placed over the sacrum, and a ratio was created.Using filtered backprojection, two forms of artifacts were identified in group I patients: first, a streak pattern that extended to the sacro-iliac joint in nine (60%) patients, the hip joint in five (33%), the superior pubic rami in four (27%), the sacrum in three (20%), and the ischium in one (6%) second, a count loss subtype which extended to the hip joints in nine (60%) patients. Corresponding values after iterative reconstruction were two (13%) for the sacro-iliac joint, three (20%) for the hip joint, one (6%) for the superior pubic ramus, and one (6%) for the sacrum. In five (33%) patients, residual count loss artifacts were still identifiable after iterative reconstruction. However in group II, no such effects were observed because the bladder activity reached near background level in 14 (93%) of 15 patients after three successive voids with a 3.5-fold decrease in the mean value of total bladder count in comparison with group I patients. A statistically significant difference was found between artifact- and non-artifact-harboring ROIs in group I whichever the method used for reconstruction, whereas the values of right and left hemi-pelvis ROIs/sacrum in group II were almost identical.Forced diuresis coupled with parenteral hydration facilitates the acquisition of an artifact-free pelvic SPECT. Especially for clinical questions that focus on femoral heads and pubic bones, applying the aforementioned protocol may improve the diagnostic accuracy of pelvic bone SPECT.