18F]-Fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography for the assessment of histopathologic response and prognosis after completion of neoadjuvant chemoradiation in esophageal cance. To evaluate the potential of [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) after the completion of neoadjuvant chemoradiation for the assessment of histopathologic response and prognosis in the multimodality treatment of patients with esophageal cancer.Combined chemoradiation with and without surgery are widely accepted treatment options for patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer. Evidence suggests that patients with response to chemoradiation have no additional benefit from surgery compared with definitive chemoradiation. However, there is still a great lack in noninvasive markers for response assessment in patients with esophageal cancer undergoing multimodality treatment. Interestingly, recent studies imply that FDG-PET significantly correlates with histopathologic response and survival in patients with esophageal cancer undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by surgical resection.Study patients were recruited from a prospective clinical observation trial on neoadjuvant chemoradiation for esophageal cancer between 1997 and 2006. The study included 119 (98 men, 21 women median age, 59.4 yearsMajor histomorphologic response was confirmed as an important prognostic factor (P = 0.005 log-rank test). Neoadjuvant chemoradiation led to a significant reduction of intratumoral FDG-uptake (P = 0.0001). A nonsignificant association was seen between major responders and FDG-PET results (P = 0.056). However, the receiver operating characteristic analysis could not identify a standardized uptake value threshold with a relevant predictive value for histomorphologic response. No significant association between metabolic imaging and prognosis was found.FDG-PET seems not to be an imaging system that effectively characterizes the groups of major and minor response as well as survival in patients with esophageal cancer after multimodality treatment.