Papillomaviruses and herpesviruses as selected risk factors in the etiopathogenesis of cervix neck cancer. I. Use of nucleic acid hybridization for diagnosing HPV infections. HPV infections are regarded as the main etiological factor responsible for the presence of cytological abnormalities and the primary risk factor for cervical cancer development. Diagnostic materials were collected between 1995 and 1997 in the Gynecologic Cancer Prevention, Cancer Center Institute of Oncology, Memorial Hospital Maria Skłodowska-Curie, Warsaw. The patients were divided into three groups: group C--women suspected for viral infection during clinical or cytological examination and two comparative groups A and B--women invited for routine cytological examination. Cytological smears for nucleic acid hybridisation collected before cytological smear sampling with a dacron swab (groups A and C) or collected after cytological smear sampling with a cervical brush (group B) were used. Cytological and clinical data was also used in the investigation. In 52% of the 236 samples tested by nucleic acid hybridisation HPV DNA was found to be present. DNA from the high/intermediate HPV risk group was also present in 36% of the samples and in 11% of the samples from the low risk HPV group. In 5% of the samples we confirmed the presence of mixed infections from both HPV risk groups. The results obtained from nucleic acid hybridisation with pap smear results were compared. It was observed that HPV infections from the high risk group occurred more frequently in pap 3 and pap 4 test results HPV infections from the low risk group occurred more frequently in pap 1 and pap 2 results, while mixed infections from both risk groups occurred particularly in pap 4 and pap 5 results. Women in the 35-45 age groups suffered more frequently from infections from the high/intermediate risk group. In the 25-35 and 55-65 age groups HPV infections from the low risk group occurred more frequently. In the comparative groups only 2.6% of the women were infected with HPV.