Enzyme-activated Prodrug Therapy Enhances Tumor-specific Replication of Adenovirus Vectors. Adenoviruses (Ads) that selectively replicate in tumor cells have shown promising preliminary results in clinical trials, especially in combination with chemotherapy. Here, we describe a system that combines the antitumor synergy of Ads and chemotherapeutic agents with the benefits of enzyme-activated prodrug therapy. In this system, a functional transgene expression cassette is created by homologous recombination during adenoviral DNA replication. Transgene expression is strictly dependent on viral DNA replication, which in turn is tumor specific. We constructed replication-activated Ad vectors to express a secreted form of beta-glucuronidase and a cytosine deaminase/uracil phosphoribosyltransferase, which activate the prodrugs 9-aminocamptothecin glucuronide to 9-aminocamptothecin and 5-fluorocytosine to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and further to 5-fluoro-UMP, respectively. We demonstrated replication-dependent transgene expression, prodrug activation, and induction of tumor cell toxicity by secreted beta-glucuronidase and cytosine deaminase/uracil phosphoribosyltransferase. Furthermore, exposure of cells to activated prodrug or drug at subtoxic concentrations enhanced viral DNA replication. Characteristically, these agents induced changes in the cell cycle status of exposed cells (G(2) arrest), which closely resembled the effect of wild-type Ad infection, and are thought to be favorable for viral replication. We tested a number of cytostatic drugs (camptothecin, etoposide, daunorubicin, cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, hydroxyurea, Taxol, and actinomycin D) for their effect on viral DNA replication and found considerable differences between individual agents. Finally, we show that the combination of viral and prodrug therapy enhances viral replication and spread in liver metastases derived from human colon carcinoma or cervical carcinoma in a mouse model. Our data indicate that specific vector/drug combinations tailored to be synergistic may have the potential to improve the potency of either therapeutic approach. These data also provide a new rationale for expressing prodrug-activating enzymes from conditionally replicating Ads.