Florid reactive lymphoid hyperplasia of the lower female genital tract (lymphoma-like lesion): a benign condition that frequently harbors clonal immunoglobulin heavy chain gene rearrangements. Lymphoma-like lesions (LLL) of the lower female genital tract are florid reactive inflammatory processes that mainly occur in women in their reproductive years. Histologically, they are characterized by a dense lymphoid infiltrate with admixed large cells that is often suspicious for lymphoma. In contrast to lymphoma, however, they are superficial lesions that typically show surface erosion and a mixed lymphoid infiltrate and do not have evidence of a mass, deep invasion, or prominent sclerosis. With the advent of widespread molecular genetic testing, it would seem that LLLs should be polyclonal helping make the correct diagnosis. However, we have found cases with morphologic and immunophenotypic features of LLLs and evidence of clonal rearrangement of the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH) gene, potentially leading to misdiagnosis. We examined the clinicopathologic features and outcome of 12 patients with LLL (9 in the cervix and 3 in the endometrium). The patients ranged in age from 18 to 54 (median 37) years and came to medical attention because of squamous dysplasia (8 patients), vaginal bleeding (3), or adnexal mass (1). One patient had an endocervical polyp, but otherwise none had a discrete mass. The specimens contained a dense, polymorphous inflammatory infiltrate, commonly associated with mucosal erosion. Immunohistochemical studies showed a mixture of B and T cells without immunoglobulin light chain restriction. Four cases (all cervical) had a clonal IGH gene rearrangement by PCR. There was no evidence of lymphoma on staging or on follow-up in any patient, including the 4 patients with clonal IGH rearrangement, after a mean follow-up of 3.5 years (range: 4 mo to 13 y). In summary, we describe 12 patients with LLL of the lower female genital tract. Four of the 9 cases (44%) analyzed by PCR had a clonal IGH gene rearrangement. The clinical and pathologic features of these cases suggest that a clonal IGH rearrangement in this setting does not warrant a diagnosis of lymphoma. Careful correlation of clinical, histologic, immunophenotypic, and genetic features is required to avoid misdiagnosis and inappropriate treatment. Routine microscopic findings and detailed clinical information remain paramount in establishing the correct diagnosis.