A virulent isolate of Salmonella enteritidis produces a Salmonella typhi-like lipopolysaccharide. The lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of Salmonella enteritidis has been implicated as a virulence factor of this organism. Therefore, the LPS from a stable virulent isolate, SE6-E21, was compared with that from an avirulent isolate, SE6-E5. The LPSs were extracted, and the high-molecular-weight (HMW) LPS was separated from the low-molecular-weight (LMW) LPS for both isolates. Both the HMW and LMW LPSs were characterized by glycosyl composition and linkage analyses. Immunochemical characterization was performed by Western blotting using factor 9 antiserum and using S. typhimurium antiserum which contains factors 1, 4, 5, and 12(2). In addition, the polysaccharides released by mild acid hydrolysis were isolated and subjected to hydrolysis by bacteriophage P22, which contains endorhamnosidase activity. The resulting oligosaccharides were purified by using Bio-Gel P4 gel permeation chromatography and characterized by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry (FAB-MS), tandem MS-MS, and matrix-assisted laser desorption time of flight MS. The results show that the HMW LPS O-antigen polysaccharides from both isolates are comprised of two different repeating units, -[-->2)-[alpha-Tyvp-(1-->3)]beta-D-Manp-(1-->4)-alpha-L-R hap-(1-->3)-alpha-D-Galp-(1-->]- (structure I) and [-->2)-[alpha-Tyvp-(1-->3)]beta-D-Manp-(1-->4)-alpha--L-R hap-(1-->3)-[alpha-D-Glcp-(1-->4)]alpha-D-Galp-(1-->]- (structure II). The LMW LPSs from both isolates contains truncated O-antigen polysaccharide which is comprised of only structure I. In the virulent SE6-E21 isolate, the HMW LPS has a structure I/II ratio of 1:1, while in the avirulent SE6-E5 isolate, this ratio is 7:1. While the 7:1 ratio represents the published level of glucosylation for S. enteritidis LPS as well as for S. enteritidis LPS purchased from Sigma Chemical Co., the 1:1 ratio found for the virulent SE6-E21 is identical to the high level of glucosylation reported for S. typhi LPS. Thus, the LPS from the virulent SE6-E21 isolate produces an S. typhi-like LPS. Furthermore, the amount of O-antigen polysaccharide in SE6-E21 was twice that in SE6-E5.