Indications for cone biopsy: pathologic correlation. Our purpose was to determine the ability of different indications for cone biopsy to predict the presence of disease in the cone specimen and the utility of conization for low-grade disease.The records were reviewed of all patients who had an excisional cone biopsy at Queens Hospital Center between 1984 and 1995. Data were gathered regarding cytologic studies, visualization of the transformation zone, colposcopically directed biopsy, and endocervical curettage. The indications for the cone procedure were grouped as being for treatment (biopsy-proved disease) (indication A), discrepancy between cytologic and histologic diagnoses (indication B), positive endocervical curettage results (indication C), and transformation zone not fully visualized (indication D), and combinations of the above.Two thousand nine hundred sixty-nine records were reviewed. Of these, 604 had cone biopsies. Three hundred twenty-three of 355 (91%) cone biopsies done for indication A alone had disease on the cone specimen (defined as any grade of dysplasia or condyloma). Forty of 47 (85.1%) cone biopsies done for indication B alone had disease of the cone specimen. Forty-three of 46 (93.5%) cone biopsies done for indication C alone had disease on the cone specimen. Ninety-one cone procedures were done for a combination of indications A and D, with 87 (95.6%) showing disease on the cone specimen. Thirty-one procedures were done for a combination of indications B and D, with 25 (80.6%) showing disease on the cone specimen. Cone procedures were done on 32 women for a combination of indications C and D, and 30 (93.8%) had disease on the cone specimen. Two cone procedures were done because of the colposcopic appearance alone one had high-grade disease on the cone specimen. Age did not help to predict the likelihood that disease would be found on the cone specimen. The data were then reanalyzed to determine the likelihood of finding high-grade disease (cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grades 2 or 3 or invasive cancer) on the cone specimen. Overall, those with preoperative high-grade cytologic or histologic characteristics (cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grades 2 or 3) were much more likely to have high-grade disease (277/371 [74.7%]) than were those with preoperative low-grade cytologic or histologic characteristics (condyloma or cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 1) (49/233 [21.0%]) (p < 0.001).Neither age nor the preoperative grade of disease are good discriminators of the likelihood that disease will be found on a conization specimen. However, patients who have high-grade disease on the preoperative evaluation are much more likely than those with only low-grade disease to have high-grade dysplasia or cancer on a subsequent conization.