Pancreaticoduodenectomy for metastatic ampullary and pancreatic tumors. To report the clinical presentation, diagnosis and results of aggressive surgical management in patients with metastatic ampullary and pancreatic tumors.Twelve patients underwent pancreaticoduodenectomy for ampullary or pancreatic metastases from January 1, 1987, to June 30, 1998, in 2 institutions. The primary cancer was renal cell carcinoma (n = 5), melanoma (n = 2), venous leiomyosarcoma (n = 1), carcinoid tumor (n = 1), colon carcinoma (n = 1), breast carcinoma (n = 1) and small-cell lung carcinoma (n = 1). The mean interval between primary treatment and metachronous pancreatic metastasis was 88 months. In 3 cases, pancreatic metastases were synchronous with the primary tumor. The main symptoms were jaundice (n = 8) and upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding (n = 2). The principal investigations were computed tomography scan (n = 9), arteriography (n = 7), duodenoscopy (n = 6) and fine-needle aspiration (n = 4). A correct preoperative diagnosis was made for 8 patients.In all cases, the pancreatic tumor was resected with intention to cure or provide useful palliation, using pancreaticoduodenectomy for isolated tumors (n = 11) or total pancreatectomy for multiple lesions (n = 1). Three out of 12 patents had positive lymph nodes, and the resection margin was free of disease in all cases. There was no postoperative mortality. Survival after pancreaticoduodenectomy averaged 26 months. Overall survival of patients undergoing pancreaticoduodenectomy was 35% at 2 years and 17% at 5 years. One patient is still alive more than 10 years after pancreaticoduodenectomy.Pancreaticoduodenectomy can be performed safely, representing a suitable option for resection in patients with symptomatic or late isolated pancreatic metastases in the absence of widely metastatic disease. The best indications are solitary metastases from renal cell carcinoma, sarcoma and neuroendocrine tumors. However, there is no evidence of survival benefit after pancreaticoduodenectomy for synchronous tumors or metachronous tumors from melanoma or colon carcinoma.