Preoperative tumor studies using MRI or CT in patients with clinically suspected insulinoma. Insulinomas are rare tumors that originate from the islet cells of the pancreas. The aims of this study were to localize insulinomas preoperatively using CT and/or MRI in correlation with postoperative pathological results.Between December 2001 and June 2010, 27 consecutive patients with clinically suspected insulinoma were surgically treated in our university hospital. Preoperative CT (14 of 27 patients) and MRI studies (14 of 27 patients, one patient had both MRI and CT), operation reports, intraoperative ultrasonography reports, and pathological diagnoses were analyzed retrospectively. For each lesion, images were analyzed based on the presence of enhancement or the characteristics of signal intensities. Pathologic correlation was available for all the lesions.The female: male ratio was 2.9, with a mean age of 47.5 years (range 12-82) . Preoperative tumor localization was achieved by means of MRI and CT. A focal pancreatic lesion, which was hypointense on T(1)-weighted sequences, was detected on all the MR images (14 of 27 patients 100%). These lesions were isointense (4 cases) to slightly hyperintense (10 of 14 cases) on T(2)-weighted sequences. In T(1)-weighted fat-suppressed contrast-enhanced sequences, there were two types of enhancement: homogeneously hyperintense lesions (in 10 of 14 cases) or peripherally hyper-, centrally isointense (in 4 of 14 cases). On all the CT images (14 of 27 patients), there was no detectable lesion on precontrast seriesWe conclude that the preoperative localization of insulinoma in clinically suspected patients can be made on the basis of MRI and/or CT studies. A hallmark lesion is hypointense in T(1)-weighted sequences, homogeneously or peripherally hyperintense in T(1)-weighted fat-suppressed contrast-enhanced sequence using MRI (100% of cases) or/and a hypervascular enhanced lesion on arterial (100% of CT studies) and on venous series using CT (66.7% of CT studies).