Field evaluation of rapid diagnostic tests for malaria in Yaounde, Cameroon. Rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) are affordable, alternative diagnostic tools. The present study aimed to evaluate RDTs available in Cameroon and compare their characteristics to follow the parasitological response of patients for 28 days. Malaria diagnosis was assessed in 179 febrile patients using conventional microscopy as the reference method. Parascreen detects both Plasmodium falciparum-specific histidine-rich protein 2 (Pf HRP-2) and Pan-specific plasmodial lactate dehydrogenase (pLDH) in all four human Plasmodium spp. Diaspot is based on the detection of Pf HRP-2. OptiMAL-IT (pLDH specific for P. falciparum and pLDH for all four human Plasmodium spp.) was assessed for comparison. The reliability of RDTs was evaluated by calculating the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, false-positive rate, false-negative rate, and likelihood ratio. The clinical outcome of 18 children treated with atovaquone-proguanil and followed for 28 days was evaluated using microscopy and RDTs. Of 179 samples, 133 (74.3%) were pure P. falciparum-positive smears, 4 (2.2%) pure P. malariae-positive smears, and 42 (23.5%) negative smears. Parascreen and Diaspot had high sensitivity (>92%) and positive predictive values (>94%). The specificities for Parascreen and Diaspot were 81.0% and 90.5%, respectively. The false-positive rates and the false-negative rates were 19.0% and 4.5% for Parascreen and 9.5% and 8.3% for Diaspot, respectively. Most false-negatives occurred in samples with low parasitaemia (<500 asexual parasites/μL). The performance of RDTs was better at higher parasitaemia (>500 asexual parasites/μL). Four pure P. malariae were only detected by the pan-Plasmodium bands of Parascreen and OptiMAL-IT. In blood samples from patients treated and followed-up for 28 days, HRP2-based RDTs remained positive in most samples until Day 28. Despite negative smears, OptiMAL-IT remained positive in several patients until Day 7 but was negative in all patients from Day 14 onwards. RDTs can improve the management of febrile patients. The validity, ease of use, and cost of HRP2-based tests were comparable. However, one of the current weaknesses of the RDT-based strategy using the tests available in Cameroon is inadequate sensitivity for low parasitaemia. In some cases, RDT results may require correct interpretation based on clinical history, clinical examination, and microscopic diagnosis.