Malaria and children who travel - prophylaxis and therapy. Children account for between 15 - 20 % of all imported malaria cases worldwide. Immigrant children visiting their families in the country of origin in sub-Saharan Africa are at highest risk. Prevention of malaria in children who travel to endemic areas is guided by the ABCD principles - Awareness of risk, Bite prevention, Chemoprophylaxis for high risk areas and rapid Diagnosis and treatment when malaria is suspected. The use of anti-malarial medication in small children is hampered by a paucity of dosage, pharmcokinetic and tolerability data. In the pre-travel consultation parents should be provided with practical advice on anti-mosquito measures, exact, (weight-based) dosages of chemoprophylaxis medication and/or stand-by treatment as indicated. A paediatric formulation is available for daily atovaquone-proguanil chemoprophylaxis (children > 11 kg) and mefloquine is a cost-effective, once weekly prophylaxis that is useful for children > 5 kg who travel for longer periods. The bitter taste of mefloquine should be disguised to increase adherence. When a Stand-by Emergency Treatment (SBET) is indicated, artemether-lumefantrine cherry flavoured dispersible tablets are a good choice for small children. Post-travel to endemic areas, malaria should always be suspected if a child becomes ill. Paediatric malaria is an emergency requiring prompt diagnosis and appropriate treatment.Malaria, vor allem die Malaria durch Plasmodium falciparum ist eine lebensbedrohliche Krankheit. Insbesondere bei nicht immunen Kindern, welche in Malaria-Endemiegebiete reisen, können innerhalb von Stunden nach den ersten Symptomen lebensbedrohliche Komplikationen auftreten. In Hochrisikogebieten sind daher ein guter Mückenschutz und eine Chemoprophylaxe als vorbeugende Maßnahmen gegen die Malaria unerlässlich. Aufgrund Datenmangels werden die Dosierung und Pharmakokinetik vorhandener Malariamedikamente für eine Chemoprophylaxe bei Kleinkindern kontrovers diskutiert. Für Reisedestinationen mit einem geringen Malariarisiko ohne Notwendigkeit einer Chemoprophylaxe wird das Mitführen einer Notfalltherapie empfohlen. Frühe Symptome der Malaria sind häufig atypisch und schwer zu erkennen. Wenn ein Kind während oder nach der Reise in ein Malariaendemiegebiet Fieber entwickelt sollte eine möglichst rasche Diagnostik und gegebenenfalls Therapie erfolgen.