Presentation and complications among the malaria death cases from municipal corporation hospitals & civil hospital of Ahmedabad during the year 2007. The present study was carried out to have understanding of characterisation including symptoms, signs and laboratory parameters which are associated with fatality of malaria cases on arrival to hospital which may lead to early recognition and improved management. Information about deaths due to Malaria, as reported to malaria Department of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation by municipal corporation hospitals and civil hospital from January 07 to December 07, was used to locate details of those deaths in respective hospitals by obtaining indoor case papers and death reports of those cases from Medical Record Section of respective hospitals and were analyzed by using appropriate statistical software. Total 57 malaria deaths occurred in the above mentioned 4 hospitals. Overall Case Fatality Rate was 3.03% for indoor malaria cases. Complete information could be obtained about 42 cases. Mean age of cases was 36.50 years. 45.23% of patients falling in the age group > = 40 yrs. There were 57.1% males and 42.9% females. 55 cases were positive for P. falciparum, 1 case for P. vivax and 1 case was having mixed infection. Average duration of Hospital stay was 2.87 days and average total duration of illness was 6.82 days. The most common presenting symptom was intermittent fever with vomiting & altered sensorium in 38.88% & most common complication was Acute Renal Failure in 45.2% of cases. Paired t-test was applied on the investigations carried out on the day of admission and those carried out on the day or before a day of death and found significant for the levels of Haemoglobin, Blood Urea & Serum Billirubin. Malaria still remains one of the important causes of admission and mortality. In view of changes in anti-malarial drug policy and introduction of costly artemisinin combination therapy accurate, rapid diagnostic tools are necessary to target treatment to people in need.