Ectopic ACTH syndrome. Ectopic ACTH syndrome represents a cancer-induced amplification of a property [proopiomelanocortin (POMC) peptides production] normally present in the cells from which the cancer originated but with aberrant posttranslational processing of POMC resulting in a greatly elevated secretion of ACTH precursors. The classic ectopic ACTH-producing tumors described in the 1960s were highly malignant but more recently slowly growing tumors such as carcinoids are reported with increasing frequency. Clinical features of patients with ectopic ACTH were analyzed, including biochemical abnormalities, plasma ACTH, cortisol and urinary steroids. Dynamic tests such as high-dose dexamethasone suppression, metyrapone and ovine-CRH (oCRH) stimulation were explored, as well as inferior petrosal sinus ACTH sampling before and after oCRH. Among the tumor markers examined, elevation of ACTH precursors was uniformly present followed by increased output of calcitonin, gut hormones, oncofetal and placental hormones in decreasing order. Since more than 90% of ectopic ACTH tumors are neuroendocrine in nature exhibiting APUD characteristics, their 2 markers, neuron-specific enolase and chromogranins are very useful. The imaging procedures for localization of the tumor ranged from chest X-rays to computed tomography and magnetic resonance of the chest and abdomen. Abdominal ultrasonography was also useful. Finally somatostatin receptor scintigraphy permitted demonstration of unrecognized tumors and/or metastases, even when the tumors were occult. The ACTH content, immunostaining for APUD markers and altered POMC processing were evaluated in ectopic tumors and/or metastases. Occult ectopic ACTH syndrome of more than 4-6 months of symptoms without the emergence of an obvious source was reviewed. Since the tumors are often clinically and biochemically undistinguishable from pituitary-dependent Cushing's disease, inferior petrosal sinus sampling for ACTH after oCRH stimulation established the diagnosis in over 90% of the cases. 60% of the occult tumors were thoracic carcinoids (3/4 bronchial carcinoids), followed by small cell lung cancer and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. In 12% the primary etiology was not detected. The rare syndrome of ectopic CRH syndrome (6 published cases) leading to excessive stimulation of the pituitary which became hyperplastic and secreted excessive amounts of ACTH is discussed. Finally, the 12 published cases and 1 unreported patient with ectopic CRH-ACTH tumors were reviewed, the majority being metastatic small cell lung carcinomas, bronchial and thymic carcinoids.