Inflammatory and endothelial markers in women with polycystic ovary syndrome. Women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) carry a pattern of cardiovascular risk factors. Endothelial dysfunction and chronic inflammation are early findings in the atherosclerotic process. The purpose of the study was to investigate the coexistence of active inflammation markers and endothelial dysfunction in young women with PCOS, and their relationship with metabolic and hormonal abnormalities of the syndrome.Twenty-five young women with PCOS and 25 controls of similar age and body mass index (BMI) were studied. Endothelial function was assessed by flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) on the brachial artery and smooth muscle cells injury was excluded by nitrate-induced dilatation (NID). Plasma levels of endothelin-1 (ET-1), soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1), soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1) and high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) were measured. Hormonal and metabolic profiles were determined in both groups.Flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) was statistically lower in PCOS (P < 0.001), whereas nitrate-induced dilatation (NID) was similar within the two groups. Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) had statistically higher levels of ET-1 (P = 0.03), sICAM-1 (P = 0.01), sVCAM-1 (P = 0.02) and hsCRP (P = 0.01). Furthermore FMD was statistically higher in PCOS population with hsCRP 1 mg L(-1) when compared with PCOS population with hsCRP > 1 mg L(-1) (P = 0.02). Flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) was negatively related to hsCRP (r = -0.512, P = 0.015) ET-1 was positively related to free androgen index (r = 0.27, P = 0.05) and negatively to sex hormone-binding globulin (r = -0.465, P = 0.022)The present study demonstrates that endothelial dysfunction coexists and is influenced by the presence of increased serum levels of inflammation and endothelial activation markers in young women with PCOS. These parameters appear to be interrelated with hyperandrogenaemia in this insulin-resistant population.