The responsiveness of the uterine fibroid symptom and health-related quality of life questionnaire (UFS-QOL). A number of noninvasive alternatives to hysterectomy have become available as treatments for uterine fibroids. These alternative therapies, however, may not relieve all symptoms. Consequently, the need for patient-reported outcomes to assess symptom reduction of uterine fibroids has become increasingly important to evaluate the clinical success of patients who choose these alternative therapies. The purpose of the study was to examine the responsiveness of the Uterine Fibroid Symptom and Health-Related Quality of Life Questionnaire (UFS-QOL) with treatment of uterine fibroids.The responsiveness of the UFS-QOL was assessed as a post-hoc analysis of patients treated with MRI-guided focused ultrasound thermal ablation (MRgFUS) for uterine fibroids. The UFS-QOL and SF-36 were completed at baseline and months 1, 3, and 6. Patient perceived overall treatment effect (OTE) was assessed at month 3, while satisfaction with treatment was collected at month 6. The responsiveness of the UFS-QOL was examined using effect sizes and change scores by patient-reported overall treatment effect and satisfaction.A total of 102 women with complete UFS-QOL data were included in the analysis the mean age was 45 years and 79% were Caucasian. From baseline to 6 months, significant improvements were observed in UFS-QOL Symptom Severity and all Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQL) subscale scores (p < 0.0001). When examining change in general health status over the 6-month follow-up period, significant improvements were noted in all 8 SF-36 subscales. The UFS-QOL was highly responsive with subscale effect sizes ranging from 0.74 for Sexual Function to -1.9 for Symptom Severity. Improvements in UFS-QOL subscales were associated with patient perceptions of perceived benefit and treatment satisfaction.The UFS-QOL is responsive to treatment for uterine fibroids and is a useful outcome measure for uterine-sparing uterine fibroid treatments.