Feasibility of dynamic MR-hysterosalpingography for the diagnostic work-up of infertile women. Tubal disturbances often contribute to infertility. Conventional hysterosalpingography (HSG) is considered as standard in the assessment of the patency of the fallopian tubes, but requires ionizing radiation and is restricted to the imaging of endoluminal structures.To evaluate dynamic magnetic resonance-HSG (dMR-HSG) in the diagnostic work-up in patients with infertility.Thirty-seven consecutive infertile women underwent dMR-HSG: 20 ml of gadolinium-polyvidone solution (18.4 mM Dotarem 1:20 with polyvidone) were injected intracervically through a 5-Charriere balloon catheter while acquiring five consecutive flash-3D T1-weighted MR sequences with fat saturation. Two experienced readers assessed image quality and anatomic-pathologic correlations prospectively. The relevance of results was evaluated in the clinical context of each patient. Patient comfort was evaluated with a standardized questionnaire.dMR-HSG was successfully completed in 33/37 patient with an average study time of 45 min. In 4 of 37 patients the catheter became dislodged during the examination, resulting in two complete diagnostic failures. Failure in another two patients was due to preliminary termination because of excessive pain and discomfort during the application of the contrast solution. The uterine cavity was completely visualized and bilateral fallopian tube patency was confirmed by dMR-HSG in 27 of 33 patients. Bilateral tubal occlusion was diagnosed in one of the remaining six patients and was confirmed by laparoscopy. Successful selective tubal catheterization was performed in one additional patient with unilateral and one patient with bilateral fallopian tube occlusion. In three cases, the catheter became dislocated at the end of the examination without demonstration of tubal patency. Since all three patients refused diagnostic laparoscopy and conventional HSG, possible bilateral occlusions of the fallopian tubes could not be further assessed.dMR-HSG with cervical cannulation and intracavitary gadolinium injection is feasible and allows assessment of the uterus, the fallopian tubes, and extra-uterine pelvic structures, while avoiding all ionizing radiation in infertile women aiming at pregnancy.