Hybrid septate uterus, coexistence of bicornuate and septate varieties: a genuine report. To highlight the coexistence of a uterine septum in cases diagnosed as bicornuate uterus on the basis of the external shape of the uterine fundus and to present the outcomes of its hysteroscopic management.Descriptive clinical report. Cases with two-chambered uterine cavities were recruited with exclusion of cases with pure bicornuate uteri. The differentiation between hybrid and pure septate uterine varieties was based on clinical evaluation, transvaginal ultrasonic evaluation, hysterosalpingography and in addition to bimanual examination under anesthesia. The final diagnosis was confirmed by combined hysteroscopy-laparoscopy examinations. Cases with pure and hybrid septate uteri were managed by hysteroscopic metroplasty and the outcomes were compared.Out of 357 cases of double chambered uteri, 18 cases (5%) were found to be a pure bicornuate variety (PBV), 322 (90.2%) cases were found to have pure septate variety (PSV) and 17 cases (4.8%) were found to have hybrid septate variety (HSV). In HSV, there was external fundal depression dividing only the upper part of the corpus giving an imprecise impression of a bicornuate uterus with a laparoscopic view, but there was a long extension of the dividing interface. Nine cases with HSV were associated with a complete utero-cervico-vaginal septum, and five cases had a complete uterine septum. The diagnosis of asymmetric horns, hemi-obstruction or bicervical uterus was made in three cases with HSV. All cases with a septate uterus were offered hysteroscopic metroplasty, and cases with fundal depression were operated under laparoscopic monitoring. In cases with HSV, the procedure was performed safely and successfully in 16/17 cases (94%). One uterine perforation was encountered, giving a six-fold increase in the perforation risk, and passed uneventfully. Successful reproductive outcomes were reported in 178/189 cases (94.1%) with PSV and in 12/15 (80%) with HSV.External fundal depressions of variable depths are associating with a septate uterus, indicating coexistence of the two anomalies. These cases are candidates for hysteroscopic metroplasty under appropriate sonographic and/or laparoscopic monitoring.