Specific particularities of uterine scars and their impact on the risk of uterine rupture in case of trial of labor. To assess the risk of uterine rupture in case of uterine scar in specific situations. To investigate whether ultrasonographic measurement of the lower uterine segment is predictive of the risk of uterine rupture.French and English publications were identified through PubMed and Cochrane databases.Trial of labor after cesarean (TOLAC) is possible in cases of uterine mullerian anomalies, segmental vertical or unknown uterine incision, postpartum fever, cesarean delivery before 37 weeks during the previous cesarean (professional agreement). TOLAC can be considered if obstetrical conditions are favorable even if the delay is less than 6 months between the previous cesarean delivery and the date of conception of the following pregnancy (professional agreement). TOLAC can be considered after a previous myomectomy, depending on technical conditions under which the intervention was conducted (gradeC). TOLAC is possible even after previous hysteroscopic metroplasty for uterine septa or in cases of uterine perforation with monopolar coagulation (professional agreement). The type of uterine suture during the previous cesarean should not influence the choice of the route of delivery (professional agreement). TOLAC can be considered in cases of two previous cesarean sections if obstetrical conditions are favorable (professional agreement). Planned cesarean section is recommended from history of three previous cesarean sections (professional agreement). A planned cesarean section is recommended in cases of previous corporeal incision during cesarean (gradeC). There is not enough data to recommend ultrasonographic measurement of the lower uterine segment during pregnancy to help to determine the route of delivery (professional agreement).TOLAC can be considered, depending on obstetric conditions, in all situations studied, except in cases of previous obstetric corporeal incision or previous history of at least three cesareans.