Translabial ultrasonography in pelvic floor prolapse and urinary incontinence diagnostics. Technological advances in the construction of sonographic devices and increasingly universal access to such tests considerably widens the range of diagnostic application of the sonographic examination. This situation also refers to pelvic organs prolapse. At present, sonographic sets used in everyday obstetrical-gynecological practice allow for insight into the structures forming the female pelvic floor, and the obtained images constitute a valuable addition to the physical examination. Positioning the sonographic transducer on a the perineum enables to visualize the three compartments of the female pelvis minor. After freezing the image, it is possible to assess the position of anatomical structures in relation to bones and designated surfaces, establish mutual distances and measure appropriate angles. Most information can be obtained in this manner within the range of the frontal compartment, whose damage is often linked with urinary incontinence. The examination standards developed so far, including the analysis of the quantitative parameters, greatly minimize the potential subjectivity of the assessment of the existing disorders. Apart from its low costs, the main value of the sonographic examination of the pelvic floor is the possibility to dynamically assess the changes in statics which take place during functional testing. Not only does it have a cognitive significance, but also it allows to adjust the scope of the surgical correction to the existing damages. Thus, indirectly it can contribute to the reduction of a number of subsequent remedial surgeries. Three-dimensional sonography allows to thoroughly examine the construction and functioning of the anal levators and to detect their possible damage. It is the trauma to these muscles--occurring, among others, during childbirth--that is one of the major causes of pelvic organs descent and prolapse in women. Sonographic examination also enables to visualize the artificial material, the use of which is increasingly frequent in the surgical treatment of pelvic organs prolapse. The remedial kits currently in use are not visible in classic X-ray examinations and CT however, they can be easily visualized by means of a sonographic test. This way it is possible to locate the positioned tapes or meshes and to establish their orientation towards the urethra, the bladder and the anus. It is also possible to observe the complications (e.g. hematomas) following the surgical procedures via the transvaginal access. Transperineal sonography is a relatively inexpensive method that may be performed in almost every ultrasonographic laboratory Its value, approaching the MRI diagnostic value in the assessment of the pelvic floor defects and its low cost, place ultrasonography on the first place among the methods of imaging the pelvic and uro-genital diaphragm. The results of diagnostics of pelvic organs prolapse obtained by placing the sonographic head on the patient's perineum may also help in establishing the changes of the support apparatus for the uterus and the vagina, bladder urethra and perineum during functional testing and, thus, to verify the clinically established degree of the prolapse. It seems, also, that this method may be used during peri-urethral injections of specific substances and post-application follow-up, an increasingly frequently employed method of urinary incontinence treatment.