Age-related normogram for antral follicle count in women with polycystic ovary syndrome. Antral follicle count (AFC) has been shown to be a reliable marker for ovarian reserve. The aims of this study were to create an age-related normogram for AFC in infertile women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and to compare age-related decline in AFC between infertile women with and without PCOS. A retrospective cohort study was conducted. Of a total of 4956 women, 619 women fit criteria for PCOS. In those with PCOS, there were large variations in the AFC between the 10th and 90th percentiles in all age groups. The rate of decline in AFC among women with PCOS was linear, while in those with non-PCOS, it was exponential until 30 years of age, and then became similar to that of PCOS. The rate of follicle loss per year was significantly slower in PCOS women compared with that in non-PCOS women. In both groups, the fastest period of follicle loss was between the ages of 18 and 30. The average follicle loss was 0.8 follicles/year in PCOS women and 1.7 follicles/year in those without PCOS (P<0.001). This study concludes that age-related decline in AFC among women with PCOS is slower than in those without PCOS. Antral follicle count (AFC) has been shown to be a reliable marker for ovarian reserve. The aims of this study were to create an age-related normogram for AFC in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), and to compare age-related decline in AFC between women with and without PCOS. A retrospective cohort study was conducted. All patients underwent a baseline transvaginal ultrasound that was performed on day 2-4 of the menstrual cycle. The total number of antral follicles of 2-9mm in diameter was recorded. Of total 4956 women, 619 women fit criteria for PCOS. In those with PCOS, there were large variations in the AFC between the 10th 90th percentiles in all age groups. The rate of decline in AFC among women with PCOS was linear while in those with non-PCOS, it was exponential until 30 years of age, and then became similar to that of PCOS. The rate of follicle loss per year was significantly slower in PCOS women compared with that in non-PCOS women. In both groups, the fastest period of follicle loss was between the ages 18-30 years. The average follicle loss was 0.8 follicles/year in PCOS women and 1.7 follicles/year in those without PCOS (P<0.001). We have concluded that age-related decline in AFC among women with PCOS is slower than in those without PCOS. Further studies are needed to determine if the AFC normogram in women with PCOS could be clinically relevant to select the optimal gonadotrophin dose for ovulation induction. 