Ovarian HMW adiponectin is associated with folliculogenesis in women with polycystic ovary syndrome. Adiponectin may regulate ovarian steroidogenesis, folliculogenesis and ovulation. The alterations in the distribution of adiponectin multimers in follicular fluid (FF) and the relationship between adiponectin multimers and folliculogenesis in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) remain unclear. In this study, we aimed to investigate the association between the levels of total and high molecular weight (HMW) adiponectin in serum and FF and folliculogenesis in women undergoing in vitro fertilisation (IVF).This prospective study included ten Chinese women with PCOS and ten controls undergoing IVF. The levels of the total and HMW adiponectin in serum and FF were determined by ELISA. Insulin resistance (IR) was estimated using the homeostasis model assessment insulin resistance index (HOMA-IR).After controlling for the body mass index (BMI), the levels of the total, and the HMW adiponectin in the serum and FF were significantly lower in the women with PCOS compared with the normovulatory women undergoing IVF (P < 0.05). The levels of the HMW adiponectin were significantly lower in the FF than in the serum (P < 0.01). No significant differences were found in the total adiponectin levels in the serum and in the FF (P > 0.05). Decreased HMW adiponectin in the FF was associated with an increased number of follicles and decreased follicular diameters in the normovulatory and PCOS women, and this association was independent of the overall adiposity. A strong positive linear correlation was observed between the number of the follicles and the IR estimated by HOMA-IR (r = 0.784, P < 0.0001). We found that the larger follicular diameters had a negative relationship with the IR estimated by HOMA-IR (r = -0.445, P < 0.05). A strong negative linear correlation was observed between HOMA-IR and the HMW adiponectin levels (r = -0.726, P < 0.001) and the total adiponectin levels (r = -0.759, P < 0.001) in the FF.The levels of the total adiponectin and the HMW adiponectin in the FF and serum were decreased in the Chinese women with PCOS compared with the normovulatory women undergoing IVF, and the differences persisted after controlling for the BMI. Ovarian HMW adiponectin is negatively correlated to folliculogenesis.