Two- and three-dimensional transvaginal ultrasound with power Doppler angiography and gel infusion sonography for diagnosis of endometrial malignancy. To evaluate the diagnostic efficiency of two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) transvaginal ultrasonography, power Doppler angiography (PDA) and gel infusion sonography (GIS) at offline analysis for recognition of malignant endometrium compared with real-time evaluation during scanning, and to determine optimal image parameters at 3D analysis.One hundred and sixty-nine consecutive women with postmenopausal bleeding and endometrial thickness ≥ 5 mm underwent systematic evaluation of endometrial pattern on 2D imaging, and 2D videoclips and 3D volumes were later analyzed offline. Histopathological findings at hysteroscopy or hysterectomy were used as the reference standard. The efficiency of the different techniques for diagnosis of malignancy was calculated and compared. 3D image parameters, endometrial volume and 3D vascular indices were assessed. Optimal 3D image parameters were transformed by logistic regression into a risk of endometrial cancer (REC) score, including scores for body mass index, endometrial thickness and endometrial morphology at gray-scale and PDA and GIS.Offline 2D and 3D analysis were equivalent, but had lower diagnostic performance compared with real-time evaluation during scanning. Their diagnostic performance was not markedly improved by the addition of PDA or GIS, but their efficiency was comparable with that of real-time 2D-GIS in offline examinations of good image quality. On logistic regression, the 3D parameters from the REC-score system had the highest diagnostic efficiency. The area under the curve of the REC-score system at 3D-GIS (0.89) was not improved by inclusion of vascular indices or endometrial volume calculations.Real-time evaluation during scanning is most efficient, but offline 2D and 3D analysis is useful for prediction of endometrial cancer when good image quality can be obtained. The diagnostic efficiency at 3D analysis may be improved by use of REC-scoring systems, without the need for calculation of vascular indices or endometrial volume. The optimal imaging modality appears to be real-time 2D-GIS.