Simultaneous endometrial aspiration and sonohysterography for the evaluation of endometrial pathology in women aged 50 years and older. To evaluate the performance of simultaneous endometrial aspiration at the time of sonohysterography for screening postmenopausal women at risk for endometrial cancer.A retrospective cohort study of women older than 50 years who underwent saline-infusion sonohysterography for the evaluation of their endometrium. On completion of imaging, the remaining intracavitary saline and endometrial tissue were aspirated through the saline-infusion sonohysterography catheter and submitted for pathologic evaluation. Based on the clinical, pathologic, and ultrasonographic results, the patients underwent surgical treatment with hysteroscopy, hysterectomy, or clinical observation. Follow-up results and outcomes were collected using electronic medical records. Sensitivity, specificity, and predictive values of saline-infusion sonohysterography, endometrial aspiration, and combined approaches for endometrial aspiration and sonohysterography were assessed.Six hundred three patients underwent endometrial aspiration at the time of sonohysterography. Endometrial tissue was present in 567 (94.0%) and outcome data were available for 540 (89.5%). In 194 (35.9%) patients, final pathology was obtained by surgical intervention. The remaining 346 (64.1%) patients were monitored for at least 6 months. Thirty patients (5.6%) had cancer or endometrial hyperplasia. A sequential model, in which endometrial aspiration was done only for positive saline-infusion sonohysterography findings, yielded sensitivity of 86.7% (95% confidence interval [CI] 69-96%) and specificity of 100% (95% CI 99-100%) for detecting endometrial hyperplasia or cancer (area under the curve 0.93). Considering proliferative endometrium as abnormal endometrial aspiration reduced specificity to 88.3% (95% CI 85-91%, P<.01) without significant increase in sensitivity (100%, 95% CI 88-100%, P=.13).The high sensitivity and specificity of the sequential endometrial aspiration at the time of sonohysterography make this approach a useful and reliable screening algorithm for detecting endometrial cancer or hyperplasia in postmenopausal women at risk. Endometrial aspiration at the time of sonohysterography should be considered as an initial one-stop endometrial evaluation in this population.