<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2001-11-01</DATELINE><TITLE>Glycoprotein D-Independent Infectivity of Pseudorabies Virus Results in an Alteration of In Vivo Host Range and Correlates with Mutations in Glycoproteins B and H</TITLE><BODY>Infection of cells by herpesviruses is initiated by the interaction of viral envelope glycoproteins with cellular receptors. In the alphaherpesvirus pseudorabies virus (PrV), the causative agent of Aujeszky's disease in pigs, the essential glycoprotein D (gD) mediates secondary attachment of virions to target cells by binding to newly identified cellular receptors (R. J. Geraghty, C. Krummenacher, G. H. Cohen, R. J. Eisenberg, and P. G. Spear, Science 280:1618–1620, 1998). However, in the presence of compensatory mutations, infection can also occur in the absence of gD, as evidenced by the isolation in cell culture of an infectious gD-negative PrV mutant (PrV-gD(−) Pass) (J. Schmidt, B. G. Klupp, A. Karger, and T. C. Mettenleiter, J. Virol. 71:17–24, 1997). PrV-gD(−) Pass is replication competent with an only moderate reduction in specific infectivity but appears to bind to receptors different from those recognized by wild-type PrV (A. Karger, J. Schmidt, and T. C. Mettenleiter, J. Virol. 72:7341–7348, 1998). To analyze whether this alteration in receptor usage in vitro influences infection in vivo, the model host mouse and the natural host pig were intranasally infected with PrV-gD(−) Pass and were compared to animals infected by wild-type PrV. For mice, a comparable progress of disease was observed, and all animals infected with mutant virus died, although they exhibited a slight delay in the onset of symptoms and, correspondingly, a longer time to death. In contrast, whereas wild-type PrV-infected pigs showed clinical signs and histological and histopathological findings typical of PrV infection, no signs of disease were observed after infection with PrV-gD(−) Pass. Moreover, in these animals, virus-infected cells were not detectable by immunohistochemical staining of different organ samples and no virus could be isolated from nasal swabs. Mutations in glycoproteins B and H were found to correlate with, and probably contribute to, gD-independent infectivity. In conclusion, although PrV-gD(−) Pass is virulent in mice, it is apparently unable to infect the natural host, the pig. This altered host range in vivo correlates with a difference of receptor usage in vitro and demonstrates for the first time the importance of gD receptors in alphaherpesvirus infection of an animal host.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>