<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-06-20</DATELINE><TITLE>Reduced Susceptibility to VIRIP-Based HIV-1 Entry Inhibitors Has a High Genetic Barrier and Severe Fitness Costs</TITLE><BODY>VIRIP has been identified as natural HIV-1 inhibitor targeting the gp41 fusion peptide. An optimized analogue (VIR-576) was effective in a phase I/II clinical trial and initial studies showed that HIV-1 resistance to VIRIP-based inhibitors has a high genetic barrier. Partially resistant CXCR4 (X4)-tropic HIV-1 NL4-3 variants could be obtained, however, after more than 15 months of passaging in MT-4 cells in the presence of another derivative (VIR-353). Sequence analyses identified the accumulation of seven mutations across the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein but outside the gp41 fusion peptide. The authors suggested that the three initial alterations conferred resistance, while subsequent changes restored viral fitness. Here, we introduced these mutations individually and in combination into X4- and CCR5 (R5)-tropic HIV-1 constructs and determined their impact on VIR-353 and VIR-576 susceptibility, viral infectivity, replication fitness, and fusogenicity. We found that essentially all seven mutations contribute to reduced susceptibility to VIRIP-based inhibitors. HIV-1 constructs containing ≥4 changes were substantially more resistant to both VIRIP-based inhibitors and the VRC34.01 antibody targeting the fusion peptide. However, they were also much less infectious and fusogenic than those harboring only the three initial alterations. Furthermore, the additional changes attenuated rather than rescued HIV-1 replication in primary human cells. Thus, the genetic barrier to HIV-1 resistance against VIRIP-based inhibitors is higher than previously suggested, and mutations reducing viral susceptibility come at a severe fitness cost that was not rescued during long-term cell culture passage. IMPORTANCE Many viral pathogens are critically dependent on fusion peptides (FPs) that are inserted into the cellular membrane for infection. Initially, it was thought that FPs cannot be targeted for therapy because they are hardly accessible. However, an optimized derivative (VIR-576) of an endogenous fragment of α1-antitrypsin, named VIRIP, targeting the gp41 FP reduced viral loads in HIV-1-infected individuals. Characterization of HIV-1 variants selected during long-term cell-culture passage in the presence of a VIRIP derivative suggested that just three mutations in the HIV-1 Env protein might be sufficient for VIRIP resistance and that four subsequent changes restored viral fitness. Here, we show that all seven mutations contribute to reduced viral susceptibility to VIRIP-based inhibitors and demonstrate that the additional changes strongly impair rather than rescue HIV-1 infectivity, fusogenicity, and replication fitness. High genetic barrier to resistance and severe fitness cost support further clinical development of this class of antiviral agents.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>