<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2004-05-26</DATELINE><TITLE>Requirements for Brome Mosaic Virus Subgenomic RNA Synthesis In Vivo and Replicase-Core Promoter Interactions In Vitro</TITLE><BODY>Based solely on in vitro results, two contrasting models have been proposed for the recognition of the brome mosaic virus (BMV) subgenomic core promoter by the replicase. The first posits that the replicase recognizes at least four key nucleotides in the core promoter, followed by an induced fit, wherein some of the nucleotides base pair prior to the initiation of RNA synthesis (S. Adkins and C. C. Kao, Virology 252:1-8, 1998). The second model posits that a short RNA hairpin in the core promoter serves as a landing pad for the replicase and that at least some of the key nucleotides help form a stable hairpin (P. C. J. Haasnoot, F. Brederode, R. C. L. Olsthoorn, and J. Bol, RNA 6:708-716, 2000; P. C. J. Haasnoot, R. C. L. Olsthoorn, and J. Bol, RNA 8:110-122, 2002). We used transfected barley protoplasts to examine the recognition of the subgenomic core promoter by the BMV replicase. Key nucleotides required for subgenomic initiation in vitro were found to be important for RNA4 levels in protoplasts. In addition, additional residues not required in vitro and the formation of an RNA hairpin within the core promoter were correlated with wild-type RNA4 levels in cells. Using a template competition assay, the core promoter of ca. 20 nucleotides was found to be sufficient for replicase binding. Mutations of the key residues in the core promoter reduced replicase binding, but deletions that disrupt the predicted base pairing in the proposed stem retained binding at wild-type levels. Together, these results indicate that key nucleotides in the BMV subgenomic core promoter direct replicase recognition but that the formation of a stem-loop is required at a step after binding. Additional functional characterization of the subgenomic core promoter was performed. A portion of the promoter for BMV minus-strand RNA synthesis could substitute for the subgenomic core promoter in transfected cells. The comparable sequence from Cowpea Chlorotic Mottle Virus (CCMV) could also substitute for the BMV subgenomic core promoter. However, nucleotides in the CCMV core required for RNA synthesis are not identical to those in BMV, suggesting that the subgenomic core promoter can induce the BMV replicase in interactions needed for subgenomic RNA transcription in vivo.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>