<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-01-10</DATELINE><TITLE>Activities of Thrombin and Factor Xa Are Essential for Replication of Hepatitis E Virus and Are Possibly Implicated in ORF1 Polyprotein Processing</TITLE><BODY>Hepatitis E virus (HEV) is a clinically important positive-sense RNA virus. The ORF1 of HEV encodes a nonstructural polyprotein of 1,693 amino acids. It is not clear whether the ORF1 polyprotein (pORF1) is processed into distinct enzymatic domains. Many researchers have attempted to understand the mechanisms of pORF1 processing. However, these studies gave various results and could never convincingly establish the mechanism of pORF1 processing. In this study, we demonstrated the possible role of thrombin and factor Xa in pORF1 processing. We observed that the HEV pORF1 polyprotein bears conserved cleavage sites of thrombin and factor Xa. Using a reverse genetics approach, we demonstrated that an HEV replicon having mutations in the cleavage sites of either thrombin or factor Xa could not replicate efficiently in cell culture. Further, we demonstrated in vitro processing when we incubated recombinant pORF1 fragments with thrombin, and we observed the processing of pORF1 polyprotein. The treatment of a liver cell line with a serine protease inhibitor as well as small interfering RNA (siRNA) knockdown of thrombin and factor Xa resulted in significant reduction in the replication of HEV. Thrombin and factor Xa have been well studied for their roles in blood clotting. Both of these proteins are believed to be present in the active form in the blood plasma. Interestingly, in this report, we demonstrated the presence of biologically active thrombin and factor Xa in a liver cell line. The results suggest that factor Xa and thrombin are essential for the replication of HEV and may be involved in pORF1 polyprotein processing of HEV. IMPORTANCE Hepatitis E virus (HEV) causes a liver disorder called hepatitis in humans, which is mostly an acute and self-limiting infection in adults. A high mortality rate of about 30% is observed in HEV-infected pregnant women in developing countries. There is no convincing opinion about HEV ORF1 polyprotein processing owing to the variability of study results obtained so far. HEV pORF1 has cleavage sites for two host cellular serine proteases, thrombin and factor Xa, that are conserved among HEV genotypes. For the first time, this study demonstrated that thrombin and factor Xa cleavage sites on HEV pORF1 are obligatory for HEV replication. Intracellular biochemical activities of the said serine proteases are also essential for efficient HEV replication in cell culture and must be involved in pORF1 processing. This study sheds light on the presence and roles of clotting factors with respect to virus replication in the cells.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>