<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-02-14</DATELINE><TITLE>Karyopherin Alpha 6 Is Required for Replication of Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus and Zika Virus</TITLE><BODY>Movement of macromolecules between the cytoplasm and the nucleus occurs through the nuclear pore complex (NPC). Karyopherins comprise a family of soluble transport factors facilitating the nucleocytoplasmic translocation of proteins through the NPC. In this study, we found that karyopherin α6 (KPNA6; also known as importin α7) was required for the optimal replication of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) and Zika virus (ZIKV), which are positive-sense, single-stranded RNA viruses replicating in the cytoplasm. The KPNA6 protein level in virus-infected cells was much higher than that in mock-infected controls, whereas the KPNA6 transcript remains stable. Viral infection blocked the ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation of KPNA6, which led to an extension of the KPNA6 half-life and the elevation of the KPNA6 level in comparison to mock-infected cells. PRRSV nsp12 protein induced KPNA6 stabilization. KPNA6 silencing was detrimental to the replication of PRRSV, and KPNA6 knockout impaired ZIKV replication. Moreover, KPNA6 knockout blocked the nuclear translocation of PRRSV nsp1β but had a minimal effect on two other PRRSV proteins with nuclear localization. Exogenous restitution of KPNA6 expression in the KPNA6-knockout cells results in restoration of the nuclear translocation of PRRSV nsp1β and the replication of ZIKV. These results indicate that KPNA6 is an important cellular factor for the replication of PRRSV and ZIKV. IMPORTANCE Positive-sense, single-stranded RNA (+ssRNA) viruses replicate in the cytoplasm of infected cells. The roles of transport factors in the nucleocytoplasmic trafficking system for the replication of +ssRNA viruses are not known. In this study, we discovered that PRRSV and ZIKV viruses needed karyopherin α6 (KPNA6), one of the transport factors, to enhance the virus replication. Our data showed that viral infection induced an elevation of the KPNA6 protein level due to an extension of the KPNA6 half-life via viral interference of the ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation of KPNA6. Notably, KPNA6 silencing or knockout dramatically reduced the replication of PRRSV and ZIKV. PRRSV nsp1β depended on KPNA6 to translocate into the nucleus. In addition, exogenous restitution of KPNA6 expression in KPNA6-knockout cells led to the restoration of nsp1β nuclear translocation and ZIKV replication. These results reveal a new aspect in the virus-cell interaction and may facilitate the development of novel antiviral therapeutics.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>