<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-04-17</DATELINE><TITLE>Carnivore Parvovirus Ecology in the Serengeti Ecosystem: Vaccine Strains Circulating and New Host Species Identified</TITLE><BODY>Carnivore parvoviruses infect wild and domestic carnivores, and cross-species transmission is believed to occur. However, viral dynamics are not well understood, nor are the consequences for wild carnivore populations of the introduction of new strains into wild ecosystems. To clarify the ecology of these viruses in a multihost system such as the Serengeti ecosystem and identify potential threats for wildlife conservation, we analyzed, through real-time PCR, 152 samples belonging to 14 wild carnivore species and 62 samples from healthy domestic dogs. We detected parvovirus DNA in several wildlife tissues. Of the wild carnivore and domestic dog samples tested, 13% and 43%, respectively, were positive for carnivore parvovirus infection, but little evidence of transmission between the wild and domestic carnivores was detected. Instead, we describe two different epidemiological scenarios with separate routes of transmission: first, an endemic feline parvovirus (FPV) route of transmission maintained by wild carnivores inside the Serengeti National Park (SNP) and, second, a canine parvovirus (CPV) route of transmission among domestic dogs living around the periphery of the SNP. Twelve FPV sequences were characterized; new host-virus associations involving wild dogs, jackals, and hyenas were discovered; and our results suggest that mutations in the fragment of the vp2 gene were not required for infection of different carnivore species. In domestic dogs, 6 sequences belonged to the CPV-2a strain, while 11 belonged to the CPV-2 vaccine-derived strain. This is the first description of a vaccine-derived parvovirus strain being transmitted naturally. IMPORTANCE Carnivore parvoviruses are widespread among wild and domestic carnivores, which are vulnerable to severe disease under certain circumstances. This study furthers the understanding of carnivore parvovirus epidemiology, suggesting that feline parvoviruses are endemic in wild carnivores in the Serengeti National Park (SNP), with new host species identified, and that canine parvoviruses are present in the dog population living around the SNP. Little evidence of transmission of canine parvoviruses into wild carnivore species was found; however, the detection of vaccine-derived virus (described here for the first time to be circulating naturally in domestic dogs) highlights the importance of performing epidemiological research in the region.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>