Low enzyme content in the pancreas does not reduce the severity of acute pancreatitis induced by bile-pancreatic duct obstruction. Enzyme load in pancreas has been considered a risk factor in the development of acute pancreatitis. In order to confirm this hypothesis our aim was to analyze the development and evolution of acute pancreatitis (AP) induced by bile-pancreatic duct obstruction (BPDO) after reducing the pancreatic enzyme content. L-364,718 - a potent CCK-receptor antagonist - was administered (0.1 mg/kg/day) for 7 days before inducing AP by BPDO. The course of AP was evaluated at different times from 1.5-48 h after BPDO. Amylase and trypsinogen contents and cytosolic calcium levels were measured by flow cytometry using specific antisera against pancreatic enzymes labelled with isothiocyanate of fluorescein and Fluo 3, respectively. The severity of the disease at the different stages was evaluated by measurements of amylase activity in ascites and plasma, percentage of pancreatic fluid and haematocrit. Electron microscopy study of the pancreas showed an increased number of zymogen granules spread through the acinar cells of control rats treated with L-364,718 for 7 days, however, total enzyme content in individual acinar cells was significantly (p < 0.01) diminished. AP significantly increased intracellular amylase and trypsinogen load from 3-12 h after BPDO, and prior L-364,718 treatment enhanced the blockade of enzyme secretion. As a result, acinar enzyme content was significantly increased from earlier stages (1.5 h after BPDO). In parallel, increased cytosolic calcium levels observed up to 24 h after BPDO appeared earlier in L-364,718-treated rats than in those not treated. The severity of AP seems to have been higher in rats previously treated with the CCK-receptor antagonist as indicated by the significantly higher pancreatic fluid and amylase activity in ascites and plasma observed at different times after BPDO. Our results indicate that there is no correlation between the severity of pancreatitis and the amount of enzymes accumulated in the pancreas before the disease is induced.