Establishment of an infected necrotizing pancreatitis model by retrograde pancreatic duct injection of sodium taurocholate and E. coli in rats. A stable and reliable infected necrotizing pancreatitis (INP) model in rats was established in order to study the pathophysiological mechanism and pathological development rule of INP and explore the new therapeutic methods for the diseases. Forty-six SD rats were randomly divided into 5 groups. The animals in group A received the injection of 5% sodium taurocholate into the pancreatic duct and those in group B underwent that of E. coli into the pancreatic duct. The rats in groups C, D and E were subjected to the injection of 5% sodium taurocholate in combination with different concentrations of E. coli (10(3), 10(4), 10(5)/mL, respectively) into the pancreatic duct. The dose of injection was 0.1 mL/100 g and the velocity of injection was 0.2 mL/min in all the 5 groups. Eight h after the injection, the survival rate of animals was recorded and the surviving rats were killed to determine the serum content of amylase and perform pathological examination and germ cultivation of the pancreatic tissue. The results showed that acute necrotizing pancreatitis model was induced by injection of 5% sodium taurocholate into the pancreatic duct. The positive rate of germ cultivation in group A was 12.5%. The acute necrotizing pancreatitis model was not induced by injection of E. coli into the pancreatic duct and the positive rate of germ cultivation in group B was 0. The INP model was established in groups C to E. The positive rate of germ cultivation was 60%, 100% and 100% and 8-h survival rate 100%, 100% and 70% in groups C, D and E, respectively. It was concluded that a stable and reliable model of INP was established by injection of 5% sodium taurocholate in combination with 10(4)/mL E. coli into the pancreatic duct with a dose of 0.1 mL/100 g and a velocity of 0.2 mL/min. The pathogenesis of INP might be that the hemorrhage and necrosis of pancreatic tissue induced by sodium taurocholate results in weakness of pancreatic tissue in fighting against the germs. Meanwhile, the necrotic pancreatic tissue provides a good proliferative environment for the germs.