Toll-like receptor 4-mediated apoptosis of pancreatic cells in cerulein-induced acute pancreatitis in mice. Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) plays an important role in the occurrence and development of acute pancreatitis (AP). Apoptosis of pancreatic cells is closely related to the severity of AP. TLR4 is known to induce apoptosis in some cell types and therefore it is of importance to investigate potential associations between TLR4 activity and apoptosis in the setting of AP.A total of 50 wild-type (C57BL/10J) and TLR4-deficient (C57BL/10ScNJ) mice were divided into three groups: 2-hour, 4-hour, and control groups. Each group was divided into two equal subgroups: TLR4-wild-type mice and TLR4-deficient mice. AP was experimentally induced by 7 intraperitoneal injections of 50 μg/kg cerulein at hourly intervals. Control mice received 7 injections of equal volumes of saline. The severity of pancreatic injury during AP was assessed by serum amylase concentration and histopathology. The level of apoptosis of pancreatic cells in response to AP was evaluated by calculating the apoptotic index (AI) and comparing the expression levels of cytochrome C and Fas-associated protein with death domain (FADD) between TLR4-wild-type and TLR4-deficient mice at 2 time points.The AI was found to be significantly lower in the pancreas of TLR4-deficient mice with AP compared to TLR4-wild-type mice at two hours after the last treatment injection. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction also revealed significantly lower expression of cytochrome C and FADD in the pancreas of TLR4-deficient mice than in TLR4-wild-type animals at the same time point. Serum amylase concentration and morphological severity of AP in pancreatic tissue were found to be similar in the two strains of mice at both time points.We postulate that TLR4 can mediate apoptosis of pancreatic cells during the early stages of AP, via the activation of both intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathways.