<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-02-28</DATELINE><TITLE>Guild-level responses of bats to habitat conversion in a lowland Amazonian rainforest: species composition and biodiversity</TITLE><BODY>Landscape modification represents one of the most severe threats to biodiversity from local to global scales. Conversion of forest to agricultural production generally results in patches of habitat that subdivide or isolate populations, alter the behavior of species, modify interspecific interactions, reduce biodiversity, and compromise ecosystem processes. Moreover, conversion may increase exposure of humans to zoonoses to which they would otherwise rarely be exposed. We evaluated the effects of forest conversion to agriculture, and its subsequent successional dynamics, on bat communities in a region of the Amazon that was predominantly closed-canopy rainforest. Based on a nonmanipulative experiment, we quantified differences in species composition, community structure, and taxonomic biodiversity among closed-canopy forest (bosque), agricultural lands (chacra), and secondary forest (purma) for two phyllostomid guilds (frugivores and gleaning animalivores) during the wet and dry seasons. Responses were complex and guild-specific. For frugivores, species composition (species abundance distributions) differed between all possible pairs of habitats in both wet and dry seasons. For gleaning animalivores, species composition differed between all possible pairs of habitats in the dry season, but no differences characterized the wet season. Ecological structure (rank abundance distributions) differed among habitats in guild-specific and season-specific manners. For frugivores, mean diversity, evenness, and dominance were greater in bosque than in purma; mean dominance was greater in bosque than in chacra, but local rarity was greater in chacra than in bosque, and no differences were manifest between purma and chacra. For gleaning animalivores, mean diversity and evenness were greater in bosque than in purma, but no differences were manifest between chacra and bosque, or between purma and chacra. Such results have important implications for management, conservation, and the epidemiology of zoonotic diseases. La actual modificación del paisaje, a escalas que van de lo local a lo global, es una de las amenazas más severas a la biodiversidad. De manera general, la conversión de bosques a áreas agrícolas produce parches de hábitat que subdividen o aíslan poblaciones, alteran la conducta de las especies, modifican las interacciones interespecíficas, reducen la biodiversidad y comprometen las funciones de los ecosistemas. Más aún, la transformación de estos ambientes puede incrementar la probabilidad de que las poblaciones humanas interactúen con zoonosis con las que de otra manera raramente entrarían en contacto. Evaluamos los efectos de la conversión de hábitat en comunidades de murciélagos en una región de Amazonia en la que la vegetación dominante es un bosque lluvioso de copas cerradas, y en la cual los efectos de la conversión a usos agrícolas sobre la biodiversidad, y la subsecuente dinámica sucesional, son aún poco comprendidos. Por medio de un experimento no-manipulativo, cuantificamos las diferencias en composición de especies, estructura de la comunidad y diversidad taxonómica entre bosque cerrado (bosque), áreas agrícolas (chacra) y bosque secundario (purma) para dos gremios tróficos de murciélagos filostómidos (frugívoros y forrajeadores de sustrato) durante dos temporadas (secas y lluvias). Las respuestas fueron complejas y diferentes para cada gremio. Para los frugívoros, la composición de especies (distribución de las abundancias) fue diferente para todos los posibles pares de hábitats tanto para secas como para lluvias. Para los forrajeadores de sustrato, la composición de especies difirió entre todos los posibles pares de hábitats en la temporada seca, pero no en la de lluvias. La estructura ecológica (distribuciones rango-abundancia) fue también específica para gremios y temporadas. Para los frugívoros, la diversidad promedio, equidad y dominancia fueron mayores en bosque que en purma; la dominancia promedio fue mayor en bosque que en chacra, pero la rareza local fue mayor en chacra que en bosque, y no se encontraron diferencias entre purma y chacra. Para los forrajeadores de sustrato, la diversidad promedio y la dominancia fueron mayores en bosque que en purma, pero no se detectaron diferencias entre chacra y bosque, o entre purma y chacra. Estos resultados tienen importantes implicaciones para el manejo, conservación y epidemiología de zoonosis.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>