<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-12-12</DATELINE><TITLE>Porcine Intestinal Enteroids: a New Model for Studying Enteric Coronavirus Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus Infection and the Host Innate Response</TITLE><BODY>Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV), a member of the group of alphacoronaviruses, is the pathogen of a highly contagious gastrointestinal swine disease. The elucidation of the events associated with the intestinal epithelial response to PEDV infection has been limited by the absence of good in vitro porcine intestinal models that recapitulate the multicellular complexity of the gastrointestinal tract. Here, we generated swine enteroids from the intestinal crypt stem cells of the duodenum, jejunum, or ileum and found that the generated enteroids are able to satisfactorily recapitulate the complicated intestinal epithelium in vivo and are susceptible to infection by PEDV. PEDV infected multiple types of cells, including enterocytes, stem cells, and goblet cells, and exhibited segmental infection discrepancies compared with ileal enteroids and colonoids, and this finding was verified in vivo. Moreover, the clinical isolate PEDV-JMS propagated better in ileal enteroids than the cell-adapted isolate PEDV-CV777, and PEDV infection suppressed interferon (IFN) production early during the infection course. IFN lambda elicited a potent antiviral response and inhibited PEDV in enteroids more efficiently than IFN alpha (IFN-α). Therefore, swine enteroids provide a novel in vitro model for exploring the pathogenesis of PEDV and for the in vitro study of the interplay between a host and a variety of swine enteric viruses. IMPORTANCE PEDV is a highly contagious enteric coronavirus that causes significant economic losses, and the lack of a good in vitro model system is a major roadblock to an in-depth understanding of PEDV pathogenesis. Here, we generated a porcine intestinal enteroid model for PEDV infection. Utilizing porcine intestinal enteroids, we demonstrated that PEDV infects multiple lineages of the intestinal epithelium and preferably infects ileal enteroids over colonoids and that enteroids prefer to respond to IFN lambda 1 over IFN-α. These events recapitulate the events that occur in vivo. This study constitutes the first use of a primary intestinal enteroid model to investigate the susceptibility of porcine enteroids to PEDV and to determine the antiviral response following infection. Our study provides important insights into the events associated with PEDV infection of the porcine intestine and provides a valuable in vitro model for studying not only PEDV but also other swine enteric viruses.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>