<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2018-12-27</DATELINE><TITLE>The effect of a porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome outbreak on genetic parameters and reaction norms for reproductive performance in pigs</TITLE><BODY>The objective of this study was to estimate genetic parameters of antibody response and reproductive traits after exposure to porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus. Blood samples were taken approximately 60 d after the outbreak. Antibody levels were quantified as the sample-to-positive ratio (S/P ratio) using a fluorescent microsphere assay. Reproductive traits included total number born (TNB), number born alive (NBA), number stillborn (NSB), number mummified (NBM), and number born dead (NBD). Mortality traits were log transformed for genetic analyses. Data were split into prior, during, and after the disease outbreak phases using visual appraisal of the estimates of farm-year-week effects for each reproductive trait. For NBA, data from all phases were combined into a reaction norm analysis with regression on estimates of farm-year-week effects for NBA. Heritability for S/P ratio was estimated at 0.17 ± 0.05. Heritability estimates for reproduction traits were all low and were lower during the outbreak for NBA but greater for mortality traits. TNB was not greatly affected during the outbreak, as many sows that farrowed during the outbreak were mated prior to the outbreak. Heritability for TNB decreased from 0.13 (prior) to 0.08 (after). Genetic correlation estimates between prior to and during the outbreak were high for TNB (0.86 ± 0.23) and NBA (0.98 ± 0.38) but lower for mortality traits: 0.65 ± 0.43, −0.42 ± 0.55, and 0.29 ± 1.39 for LNSB, LNBM, and LNBD, respectively. TNB prior to and after the outbreak had a lower genetic correlation (0.32 ± 0.33). In general, genetic correlation estimates of S/P ratio with reproductive performance during the outbreak were below 0.20 in absolute value, except for LNSB (−0.73 ± 0.29). Based on the reaction norm model, estimates of genetic correlations between the intercept and slope terms ranged from 0.24 ± 0.50 to 0.54 ± 0.35 depending on the parameterization used, indicating that selection for the intercept may result in indirect selection for steeper slopes, and thus, less resilient animals. In general, estimates of genetic correlations between farm-year-week effect classes based on the reaction norm model resembled estimates of genetic correlations from the multivariate analysis. Overall, compared to previous studies, antibody S/P ratios showed a lower heritability (0.17 ± 0.05) and low genetic correlations with reproductive performance during a porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome outbreak, except for the LNSB.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>