<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-11-22</DATELINE><TITLE>Deoxynivalenol Promotes Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus Infection and Aggravates Gut Barrier Injury</TITLE><BODY>AbstractPorcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) is a highly contagious pathogenic virus that causes severe diarrhea and dehydration in pigs of all ages. Deoxynivalenol (DON), the most abundant trichothecene in food and feed, causes vomit and diarrhea in animals and human. However, whether DON exposure could affect PEDV infection remains unknown. Herein, we investigated the impacts of DON on entry and replication of PEDV, morbidity situation of piglets and the mechanisms involved. In vivo, twenty-seven piglets infected naturally with PEDV were randomly divided into three groups, receiving the basal diet containing 0, 750 and 1500 μg/kg DON, respectively. We observed significant increases in the diarrhea rates, the villous injury of jejunums and the PEDV proliferation of duodenum, jejunum, ileum and mesenterium of piglets in experimental groups compared with control. Additionally, the autophagosome-like vesicles and the autophagy-related protein expressions were also increased in experimental groups. In vitro, we observed that, approximately 2 hrs post-infection, 0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 μM DON promoted PEDV entry (P < 0.05) in IPEC-J2s and resulted in tight junction protein occludin internalization. Knockdown of occludin and CRISPR-Cas9-mediated knockout of LC3B indicated a vital role of autophagy-induced occludin internalization in DON-promoted PEDV entry. We also observed that, 24 hrs post-infection, a significant increase in PEDV replication after 0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 μM DON treatment, along with the induction of a complete autophagy. Specifically, deletion of LC3B indicated a crucial role of autophagy in DON-promoted PEDV replication. Pretreatment with SB202190, a p38 signaling inhibitor, abolished the induction of autophagy. Furthermore, downregulation of type I interferon revealed that DON contributed PEDV to escape innate immune. Mechanistically, DON-caused innate immune escape was related to the upregulation of LC3B, which further inhibited STING phosphorylation. Taken together, DON could promote PEDV infection by inducing occludin internalization and innate immune escape via triggering p38-mediated autophagy.Author summaryPorcine epidemic diarrhea (PED), a devastating enteric disease, leads to catastrophic economic loss to the global pig industry. Its primary pathogen is the coronavirus PED virus (PEDV). Growing evidence indicates that pathogen infection is not the only factor of PED outbreaks, other non-infectious factors is also related to this disease. We guessed some ubiquitous substances, such as deoxynivalenol (DON), that lead to pig intestinal epithelial cell stress might encourage the progress and spread of PED. In the present study, the weaning piglets infected naturally with PEDV and the IPEC-J2 cell line were selected as models to explore the effects of DON on PEDV infection, morbidity and gut barrier. Our results showed that DON exposure can promote PEDV infection in vitro and in vivo, and the underlying mechanism might be related to LC3B-mediated autophagy. Our findings reveal new pathways for developing potential novel antiviral strategies against PEDV infection.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>