<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2020-03-10</DATELINE><TITLE>What does “crisis” education look like?</TITLE><BODY>In the recent issues of IRGEE, we have been asking a few questions, trying to look into the crystal ball of our shared futures. We have been asking questions about how well we are preparing children as tomorrow’s citizens and leaders, and if they will have the dispositions, skills and knowledge to take the planet forward for future generations. To try to answer these questions we considered current events happening in both the editors’ local contexts as well as in global events. For instance, the concerns of drought and bush fires in Australia accompanied politicians arguing over swimming pools and women’s sporting facility funding, and there was another attempted political party leadership takeover. In Singapore, people took different stands on the ban on personal mobility devices on pedestrian pavement. At the global level, news about Brexit and the coming United States elections were prominently featured on headlines. More recently, we were alerted to the 2019 Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) crisis affecting many countries around the world. While there have been discussions of 21st century competencies that our children will need to flourish in a future economy, one in which some of their jobs have not been even invented yet, there is another aspect of future-ready education that we need to address—education in times of crisis. During these times of crises, how information is produced and consumed has immense impact on society and economy, and education has an important part to play in ensuring that people are able to interpret accurately the information they come into contact with. Broadly defined, “crisis education” should examine how education is able to address the knowledge, skills and dispositions required for people in precarious times. Given that the COVID-19 event is recent and its potential impact on longer term global movement of people and resources have yet to be seen, we explore the social aspects of this crisis and highlight the impact of misinformation circulating on social media. A review of past IRGEE papers exploring ‘crisis education’ is used to explore the role of geographical and environmental education in combatting the impact of this misinformation. This year we become aware of the COVID-19 outbreak on 31 December 2019. At least tens of thousands of people have been infected and the death toll in China alone has exceeded that of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARs) outbreak (figures are taken from the World Health Organization website as of 10 February 2020). The media reminds us of other past deadly virus outbreaks like SARs and the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) virus. Unfortunately, unlike SARS and MERS, the current crisis coincided with the period just prior to and during the Lunar New Year, when traditionally millions of people in China and around the world travel back to their hometowns to celebrate the Lunar New Year. This greatly facilitated the spread of the virus during the initial incubation period. The news media are keeping the world updated on processes and procedures, explaining the need for quarantine periods and the need to keep calm and to be cognizant of the heightened general hygiene requirements. Speculation is beginning on the possibilities of what the worldwide economic and social impact of the COVID-19 will be. Unfortunately, what we are also seeing and hearing is the spread of misinformation—information that is false, but not created with the intention of causing harm (e.g., someone posting an idea containing erroneous information, but not realizing it is erroneous). We are seeing misinformation circulated largely on social media, but also in the conventional and digital news outlets.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>