<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2020-02-26</DATELINE><TITLE>The world is changing fast!</TITLE><BODY>The world is changing fast! As of 9 February 2020, there now have been at least 813 deaths from a novel strain of coronavirus that is thought to have originated in Wuhan, China (2019-nCoV), at the end of 2019. These deaths are in the context of the 37 558 cases of 2019-nCov which have already been diagnosed in China and multiple other countries.1 In the United Kingdom (UK), recent research by University College London, funded by the Nuffield Foundation, has found that 1 in 20 UK teachers now report long-lasting mental health problems, illustrating a dramatic increase from around 1/100 teachers affected in this way in the 1990s.2 In the United States (US), a recent report by Accenture (Artificial Intelligence [AI]: Healthcare's new nervous system), estimates that AI in health will be worth around $6.6 billion by 2021 and that “…when combined, key clinical health AI applications can potentially create $150 billion in annual savings for the US healthcare economy by 2026.”3 What do these facts and statistics have in common? Taken together they illustrate the massive range and rate of change in health and the responsibility of healthcare globally. In this context a valid question can be asked about the role of general medical journals such as the International Journal of Clinical Practice (IJCP). Having taken over as Editor in Chief of IJCP in January this year, I have the honour of leading an internationally renowned medical journal, with a team of extremely accomplished clinician editors, published by Wiley, one of the world's leading biomedical publishers. In our rapidly changing healthcare world, IJCP is eager, committed and ideally suited to undergo a transition process as well. As a team, our view is that in a healthcare environment of seemingly ever-increasing specialisation, one key role that a Journal such as ours should move to fulfil is to publish important, high quality medical research and opinion that will inform specialist clinicians about important general medical concepts, practical insights and recent advances. Similarly, we will also aim to inform generalists about key speciality medical advances that have relevance to generalists in the provision of care to their patients. In this work a foundational aspect of our editorial approach will be rather than looking for reasons to reject submissions, to clearly identify problems with submitted research and opinion if they exist, and work closely with authors to address these issues, allowing those authors to raise the quality of their work to the highest level. In that context, as well as continuing to publish submissions from internationally important clinicians and medical researchers worldwide, we also see that IJCP should aim to specifically encourage less experienced authors who nonetheless have important information to share with the global healthcare community. In this way, IJCP will drive forward its primary function of improving global health through the dissemination of world leading medical information and debate. The world is changing fast, and IJCP has the energy and vision to change with it!&#3;</BODY></TEXT>