<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2020-03-10</DATELINE><TITLE>Are Powered Air Purifying Respirators a Solution for Protecting Healthcare Workers from Emerging Aerosol-Transmissible Diseases?</TITLE><BODY>For the third time in less than 20 years there is global concern about a novel coronavirus causing significant respiratory morbidity and mortality. The first cases of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) were reported by China to the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2003; one-third of these were among healthcare workers (WHO, 2003). By the end of the outbreak in 2004, more than half (378; 57%) of the 667 SARS cases treated in Asian and Canadian outbreak hospitals were healthcare workers or medical students (Sepkowitz and Eisenberg, 2005). At the time of and for many years after the SARS outbreak, there was much consternation among the medical and infectious disease communities about the organism's mode(s) of transmission. Aerosols (both fine particles and larger droplets) had to be at least partially responsible for the relative ease with which SARS was transmitted from person to person. As more detailed epi-demiologic data were published, this proved to be the case-risk factors for nosocomial transmission of SARS included exposure during aerosol-generating medical procedures, failure to isolate infectious patients, and the lack or uneven use of personal protective equipment (Scales et al., 2003; Fowler et al., 2004; Ofner-Agostini et al., 2006; Chen et al., 2009). In May 2014, when the first cases of Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) were reported in the USA 2 years after initial outbreaks in Saudi Arabia, Dr Rachael Jones and I published a Commentary on the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Practice website (Brosseau and Jones, 2014). We argued that MERS was likely an aerosol-transmissible disease, because it resulted in symptoms similar to SARS (cough, diarrhea, and vomiting) and patients would likely undergo aerosol-generating procedures, such as intub-ation and bronchoscopy. As with SARS, early data suggested aerosol transmission of MERS among hospital patients located at some distance from each other. As with SARS, the MERS coronavirus remains viable as an aerosol and on surfaces for long periods of time at low relative humidity. We argued that healthcare workers should be provided with fit-tested N95 filtering facepiece respirators (FFRs), at a minimum, when caring for MERS patients. For exposures to high concentrations of infectious particles, such as from patients experiencing severe symptoms or during aerosol-generating procedures , we recommended that healthcare workers should be wearing powered air purifying respirators (PAPRs), which offer a higher degree of protection than FFRs. At the time of our Commentary, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) was recommending contact, droplet, and airborne precautions for MERS; WHO was recommending only contact and droplet precautions. The WHO guidance for MERS, updated in October 2019, now recommends respirators and well-ventilated negative pressure rooms for aerosol-generating procedures (WHO, 2019). While this is a small step forward, the WHO guidance continues to recommend surgical masks for healthcare workers when caring for hospitalized MERS patients.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>