<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2020</DATELINE><TITLE>Editor's Note</TITLE><BODY>A few years ago, when I wrote an editorial note, there was an unseasonable heavy snowfall,making the city of Tokyo havoc. This time the cause is the 2019 Novel Coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2).Infection by this novel virus had become grave news involving the whole world by the end ofJanuary. Now, as I am writing this, there is no cure, and the number of patients is also increasingday by day in Japan. Masks are out of stock throughout the city, and I have heard that people queueup for few masks in front of drug stores from early in the morning.The effectiveness of wearing a mask to prevent infection is limited. What is the cause of such asituation? As a matter of fact, in an epidemic of infection, the most serious problem is not infectionitself, but unscientific rumors and people who are easily swayed by them. Avoidance of vaccinationby insisting that vaccines have no effect or that they are harmful to the body is fundamentally thesame. The anti-vaccination movement still exists despite the evidence-based medicine, and thereare concerns about its expansion. However, even with scientific evidence, it is not easy to persuadeanti-vaccinationists, and this is the moment, when we, academia, feel powerless.Nevertheless, we should not be discouraged. The mission of academia is to conduct reliableresearch. Reliable data are obtained from such research, and scientific solution of the problemssteadily proceed. Based on the outcomes of these data and solutions, scientists themselves shouldcreate the methods of advocacy and persuasion or rely on experts in this area.However, scientists should solve the problems with science. Academic journals such as theJuntendo Medical Journal may be of marked significance in this regard. It is important to get theexcellent findings, but even negative data need to be published somewhere and shared amongvarious people, whenever they lead to academically important questions. Such data promote thediscussions, deeper research perspectives, and new themes. Submitting articles in English has beenestablished in the Juntendo Medical Journal. The journal will achieve further progress in the nearfuture.Toshihiro MitaDepartment of Tropical Medicine and ParasitologyCall for feature article proposalsTo introduce the latest medical findings, Juntendo Medical Journal features a specific focus areafor each issue. We would like to request all our readers to address any suggestions or proposals forsuitable focus areas to our editorial office.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>