<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-09-24</DATELINE><TITLE>Influence of different glycoproteins and of the virion core on SERINC5 antiviral activity</TITLE><BODY>ABSTRACTHost plasma membrane protein SERINC5 is incorporated into budding retrovirus particles where it blocks subsequent entry into susceptible target cells. Three accessory proteins encoded by diverse retroviruses, HIV-1 Nef, EIAV S2, and MLV Glycogag, each independently disrupt SERINC5 antiviral activity, by redirecting SERINC5 from the site of virion assembly on the plasma membrane to an internal RAB7+ endosomal compartment. Pseudotyping retroviruses with particular glycoproteins, e.g., the vesicular stomatitis glycoprotein (VSV G), renders the infectivity of particles resistant to inhibition by virion-associated SERINC5. To better understand viral determinants for SERINC5-sensitivity, the effect of SERINC5 was assessed using HIV-1, MLV, and M-PMV virion cores, pseudotyped with glycoproteins from Arenavirus, Coronavirus, Filovirus, Rhabdovirus, Paramyxovirus, and Orthomyxovirus genera. Infectivity of particles, pseudotyped with HIV-1, amphotropic-MLV, or influenza virus glycoproteins, was decreased by SERINC5, whether the core was provided by HIV-1, MLV, or M-PMV. Particles generated by all three cores, and pseudotyped with glycoproteins from either avian leukosis virus-A, human endogenous retrovirus K (HERV-K), ecotropic-MLV, HTLV-1, Measles morbillivirus, lymphocytic choriomeningitis mammarenavirus (LCMV), Marburg virus, Ebola virus, severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus (SARS-CoV), or VSV, were insensitive to SERINC5. In contrast, particles pseudotyped with M-PMV, RD114, or rabies virus (RABV) glycoproteins were sensitive to SERINC5, but only with particular retroviral cores. Resistance to SERINC5 by particular glycoproteins did not correlate with reduced SERINC5 incorporation into particles or with the route of viral entry. These findings indicate that some non-retroviruses may be sensitive to SERINC5 and that, in addition to the viral glycoprotein, the retroviral core influences sensitivity to SERINC5.IMPORTANCEThe importance of SERINC5 for inhibition of retroviruses is underscored by convergent evolution among three non-monophyletic retroviruses, each of which encodes a structurally unrelated SERINC5 inhibitor. One of these retroviruses causes tumors in mice, a second anemia in horses, and a third causes AIDS. SERINC5 is incorporated into retrovirus particles where it blocks entry into target cells, via a mechanism that is dependent on the viral glycoprotein. Here we demonstrate that retroviruses pseudotyped with glycoproteins from several non-retroviruses are also inhibited by SERINC5, suggesting that enveloped viruses other than retroviruses may also be inhibited by SERINC5. Additionally, we found that sensitivity to SERINC5 is determined by the retrovirus core, as well as by the glycoprotein. By better understanding how SERINC5 inhibits viruses we hope to extend fundamental understanding of virus replication and of the native role of SERINC5 in cells, and perhaps to advance the development of new antiviral strategies.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>