<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2019-07-18</DATELINE><TITLE>Quantifying the roles of vomiting, diarrhea, and residents vs. staff in norovirus transmission in U.S. nursing home outbreaks</TITLE><BODY>AbstractThe role of individual case characteristics, such as symptoms or demographics, in norovirus transmissibility is poorly understood. Six nursing home norovirus outbreaks occurring in South Carolina, U.S. from 2014 to 2016 were examined. We aimed to quantify the contribution of symptoms and other case characteristics in norovirus transmission using the reproduction number (REi) as an estimate of individual case infectivity and to examine how transmission changes over the course of an outbreak. Individual estimates of REi were calculated using a maximum likelihood procedure to infer the average number of secondary cases generated by each case. The associations between case characteristics and REi were estimated using a multivariate mixed linear model. Outbreaks began with one to three index case(s) with large estimated REi’s (range: 1.48 to 8.70) relative to subsequent cases. Of the 209 cases, 155 (75%) vomited, 164 (79%) had diarrhea, and 158 (76%) were nursing home residents (vs. staff). Cases who vomited infected 2.74 (95% CI: 1.90, 3.94) more individuals than non-vomiters, cases with diarrhea infected 1.62 (95% CI: 1.09, 2.41) more individuals than cases without diarrhea, and resident-cases infected 1.69 (95% CI: 1.18, 2.42) more individuals than staff-cases. Index cases tended to be residents (vs. staff) who vomited and infected considerably more secondary cases compared to non-index cases. Results suggest that individuals, particularly residents, who vomit are more infectious and tend to drive norovirus transmission in U.S. nursing home norovirus outbreaks. While diarrhea also plays a role in norovirus transmission, it is to a lesser degree than vomiting in these settings. Results lend support for prevention and control measures that focus on cases who vomit, particularly if those cases are residents.Author summaryThe majority of all norovirus outbreaks reported to the CDC occur in long-term care facilities (LTCFs), including nursing homes, where older residents are at risk for more severe or prolonged infection. Because there is currently no publicly available norovirus vaccine, sound control measures are key to controlling norovirus outbreaks, but there is little evidence that standard control measures are effective in reducing the size and/or duration of LTCF norovirus outbreaks. Hence, studies leading to a better understanding of disease spread and prevention of additional cases, and thus more effective control measures, are needed. To this end, we aimed to quantify factors associated with norovirus transmission and to examine how transmission changes over the course of an outbreak. We show that vomiting and, to a lesser extent, diarrhea are critical in initiating and sustaining norovirus transmission in U.S. nursing home norovirus outbreaks. We also show that nursing home residents, rather than staff, are the primary drivers of transmission. Results suggest that control measures focusing on cases who vomit, particularly if those cases are residents, would be most effective at curtailing norovirus transmission in these settings.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>