High telomerase activity is associated with cell cycle deregulation and rapid progression in endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the uterus. Telomerase activity, a mechanism granting cellular immortality, has been detected in most cancer entities, but its association with clinical, histopathologic, and prognostic parameters is not fully understood. We investigated whether quantitative telomerase levels are correlated to established prognostic factors, telomere lengths, cell cycle kinetics, and the clinical course in endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the uterus (EC). A modified telomeric repeat amplification protocol (TRAP) was used to quantify the relative telomerase activity in a series of 53 primary tumors. Mean telomere length was determined by Southern blot analysis. Cell cycle kinetics were studied immunohistochemically on paraffin sections using monoclonal antibodies to 2 distinct proliferation-specific proteins: Ki-67, which is expressed throughout the cell cycle, and a novel cell cycle-associated protein, repp86, the expression of which is restricted to the cell cycle phases S, G2, and M. The ratio of the 2 immunolabeling indices defines the rate of transition through the restriction point. Telomerase activity was detected in 50 of 53 ECs (94%). Its levels correlated significantly with FIGO stage (P =.01) and FIGO grade (P =.003) but not with myometrial invasion. They were weakly associated with the overall proliferative activity (Ki-67, r =.48) but significantly with the repp86 index (r =.64) and even more strongly with the repp86:Ki-67 ratio (r =.77). There was no correlation with mean telomere length. In the group of tumors with high telomerase activity, 5 patients had relapses and 2 died of the disease within a median follow-up period of 29 months. Recurrence showed no relation to FIGO grade and stage. No events were observed in the group with low telomerase activity. In a multivariate model including tumor stage, histopathologic grade, depth of myometrial invasion, and Ki-67 indices, telomerase activity emerged as the only independent predictor of disease progression (P =.0002). It is concluded that beyond a link to proliferation, high telomerase activity reflects a deregulation of the cell cycle associated with an increased rate of cells entering S phase and a higher degree of malignancy. Therefore, quantitative analysis of telomerase activity may be useful for identifying EC patients at high risk for recurrence.