Endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the uterus with a minimal deviation invasive pattern. Minimal deviation adenocarcinoma of endometrioid type is a rare pathological entity. We describe a variant of typical endometrioid adenocarcinoma associated with minimal deviation adenocarcinoma of endometrioid type.One 'pilot' case of minimal deviation adenocarcinoma of endometrioid type associated with typical endometrioid adenocarcinoma was encountered at our institution in 2001. A second case of same type was received in consultation. We reviewed 168 consecutive hysterectomy specimens diagnosed with 'endometrioid adenocarcinoma' specifically to identify areas of minimal deviation adenocarcinoma of endometrioid type. Immunohistochemistry was done with the following antibodies: MIB1, p53, oestrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), cytokeratin 7 (CK7), cytokeratin 20 (CK20), carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), and vimentin (VIM). Four additional cases of minimal deviation adenocarcinoma of endometrioid type were identified. All six cases of minimal deviation adenocarcinoma of endometrioid type were associated with superficial endometrioid adenocarcinoma. In two cases with a large amount of minimal deviation adenocarcinoma of endometrioid type, the cervix was involved. The immunoprofile of two representative cases was ER+, PR+, CK7+, CK20-, CEA-, VIM+. MIB1 immunostaining of four cases revealed little proliferative activity of the minimal deviation adenocarcinoma of endometrioid type glandular cells (0-1%) compared with the associated 'typical' endometrioid adenocarcinoma (20-30%). The same four cases showed no p53 immunostaining in minimal deviation adenocarcinoma of endometrioid type compared with a range of positive staining in the associated endometrioid adenocarcinoma.Minimal deviation adenocarcinoma of endometrioid type more often develops as a result of differentiation from typical endometrioid adenocarcinoma than de novo. Due to its deceptively benign microscopic appearance, minimal deviation adenocarcinoma of endometrioid type may be overlooked and may lead to incorrect assessment of tumour depth and pathological stage. There was a tendency for tumour with a large amount of minimal deviation adenocarcinoma of endometrioid type to invade the cervix.