Glycosylation and over-expression of endometriosis-associated peritoneal haptoglobin. Peritoneal endometriotic tissues synthesize and secrete haptoglobin (pHp), which has an analogous nucleotide sequence to hepatic haptoglobin found in serum (sHp). This study performed enzymatic digestions and lectin binding assays to determine if differences in protein glycosylation exist between sHp and pHp, which may provide insight into pHp function and/or identify epitopes for development of novel methods of medical management of endometriosis. To reduce the dependence on surgical collection of peritoneal tissues from women, recombinant peritoneal Hp (rpHp) was produced and its glycosylation analyzed for future functional studies. These results showed the apparent molecular weight of pHp was 3 kDa smaller than sHp. Desialylation and complete N-deglycosylation elicited similar shifts in sHp and pHp electrophoretic migration, suggesting similar sialic acid content and indicating the 3 kDa variance was due to carbohydrate content, not protein degradation, respectively. Sequential deglycosylation of the four sHp N-glycan chains caused a 3 kDa shift per N-glycan removed suggesting the 3 kDa difference between sHp and pHp may be one N-glycan chain. Lectin ELISA and lectin-blotting analyses demonstrated increased pHp and rpHp interactions with MAL and LTL but no difference in binding to SNL compared to sHp from healthy individuals, identifying variations in the ratios of alpha(2-3) to alpha(2-6) sialic acid and fucose residues. Recombinant pHp was 100-fold over-expressed with a similar glycosylation pattern to pHp, albeit in an unprocessed alpha-beta Hp polypeptide form. These results are the first to identify differences between pHp and sHp glycosylation and lay groundwork further studies to characterize anomalies in glycan composition and structure, which likely impart pHp with known immunomodulatory functions and may be used as epitopes for development of immune based therapeutics for novel, non-surgical management of endometriosis.