Treatment with piroxicam before embryo transfer increases the pregnancy rate after in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer. To examine the effect of beta-cyclodextrin piroxicam treatment for priming of the uterus on the pregnancy outcome of IVF-embryo transfer (ET) programs.Prospective, randomized, double-blinded placebo-controlled clinical study.Large urban medical center.One hundred eighty-eight consecutive cycles of fresh IVF-ET and 78 cycles of frozen-thawed ET. The patients underwent IVF because of tubal, male infertility, unexplained, or endometriosis factors. They were randomly divided into treatment and control groups.In the treatment group, 94 cycles in fresh ET and 39 cycles in frozen-thawed ET the patients received an oral dose of 10 mg of piroxicam. In the control group, the same number cycles corresponding to the treatment group were treated with placebo. Both groups started piroxicam or placebo treatment 1-2 hours before ET. Patients and staff were blinded to the treatment.Implantation rate (IR) and pregnancy rate (PR).Piroxicam increased significantly IR (18.7%) and PR (46.8%) compared to the control group (8.6% and 27.6%, respectively) in fresh cycles. With the exception of an unexplained factor, patients with the tubal, male infertility, or endometriosis factor had significantly higher PR in the treatment group compared to the control group. The beneficial effect of piroxicam was found in patients less than 40 years old, but was not found in patients more than 40 years. In frozen-thawed cycles, there were statistically significant differences between the treatment group and the control group in IR (9.4% vs. 2.3%) and PR (25.6% vs. 7.7%), respectively.Our study showed that piroxicam increases IR and PR after IVF-ET in both fresh and frozen-thawed ET cycles. The beneficial effect seems to be more remarkable in patients less than 40 years old with tubal, male infertility, or endometriosis factors. These results suggest that piroxicam treatment before ET is very effective in the priming of a uterus suitable for embryo implantation. This is the first study to investigate the possible consequence of piroxicam for improving the PR after IVF-ET.