Peritoneal fluid cytokines and sICAM-1 in minimal endometriosis: search for discriminating factors between infertility and/or endometriosis. To evaluate cytokine levels (IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-8), soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1) and number of macrophages in peritoneal fluid (PF) of women with no minimal endometriosis and associated (or not) infertility in order to discriminate between infertility and/or endometriosis.Cytokines and sICAM-1 were measured by using quantitative enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) while the macrophages were identified by May-Grunwald-Giemsa and non-specific esterase staining and presented as medians. The measurements were performed in 78 women belonging to four selected subgroups according to their endometriosis and/or infertility status. Statistical analysis was performed using Kruskal-Wallis non-parametric ANOVA test. Additionally, discriminant function analyses were performed.We have found the most elevated macrophage numbers in the groups of women with endometriosis. IL-1beta did not present any statistically significant values differentiating the analysed subgroups. IL-6 (110.0 pg/ml) and TNF-alpha exhibited the highest concentrations (statistically significant) in a group of fertile women with endometriosis. IL-8 clearly differentiated between the subgroups with infertility and sICAM-1 was statistically significantly elevated in the subgroups of infertile women. In the forward discriminant analysis, when subdividing the studied population according to its infertility status (we considered macrophages, IL-8 and IL-6 in order of probability values), we have found striking probability value of 92% for the correct classification into an infertile population.Out of the range of the analysed factors we have found only the sICAM-1 to be singled out between the standard discriminant analysis and the forward one. However, this important flagging molecule might be of considerable value for discrimination between different types of pathology at the level of immune effector function. The increased levels of TNF-alpha and IL-6 signified a group of fertile women with endometriosis however only IL-6 presented a discriminating value in multifunctional analysis of examined subgroups. The analysed range of factors had a greater tendency to discriminate between infertility status rather than endometriosis.