Expression of immunoreactivity of nuclear findings by p53 and cyclin a in endometrial cytology: Comparison with endometrial glandular and stromal breakdown and endometrioid adenocarcinoma grade 1. It is well known that "condensed cluster of stromal cells (CCSC)" and "metaplastic clumps with irregular protrusion (MCIP)" in endometrial glandular and stromal breakdown (EGBD) cases may simulate "clumps of cancer cells (CCC)" in endometrioid adenocarcinoma grade 1 (G1), leading to difficulty in cytological interpretation. The aim of this study was undertaken to clarify the cytological immunoreactivity of nuclear findings about CCSC and MCIP which may be recognized in EGBD cases by using p53 protein and cyclin A in liquid-based cytologic (LBC) preparations. The material consists of cytologic smears of 20 cases of EGBD and 20 cases of G1 for which histopathological diagnosis was obtained by endometrial curettage at the JA Suzuka General Hospital. The evaluation of immunoreactivity was performed by using the intensity of nuclear staining and the nuclear labeling index (N-LI). The intensity of nuclear staining was scored as negative (0), weak (1), moderate (2), or strong (3). The N-LI was scored as less than 10% (0), from 10 to 25% (1), from 26 to 50% (2), or greater than 50% (3). The final score was calculated of the addition of both partial scores. Results are as follows: As for the p53 protein immunoreactivity, CCC (2.4 ± 1.4) was a significantly higher value in comparison with CCSC (0) and MCIP (0.8 ± 0.4), respectively. As for the cyclin A immunoreactivity, CCC (2.8 ± 1.1) was a significantly higher value in comparison with CCSC (0) and MCIP (0.6 ± 0.5), respectively. CCSC and MCIP in EGBD are misunderstood as cellular atypia and structural atypia on occasion but, as for results of the immunoreactivity scores of p53 protein and cyclin A in our study, it seemed that those biochemical characters proved that the biological activity level was low (or degenerative). The results of the current study demonstrated that the cytological immunoreactivity of nuclear findings by p53 and cyclin A appear to be more useful for the LBC assessment of endometrial lesions, especially for the discrimination of EGBD and G1.