Stretch magnitude- and frequency-dependent cyclooxygenase 2 and prostaglandin E2 up-regulation in human endometrial stromal cells: possible implications in endometriosis. Endometriosis, with a prevalence rate ranging from 6% to 10%, is the major contributor to pelvic pain and subfertility, and considerably reduces the quality of life in affected women. However, the pathogenesis of this disease remains largely unknown. The present study aimed to uncover the role of hyperperistalsis in the pathogenesis of endometriosis, by exploring the response of human endometrial stromal cells (ESCs) to the cyclic stretch in vitro. ESCs isolated from 18 different endometrium biopsies undergoing hysterectomy for myoma were subjected to uniaxial cyclic stretches with different magnitude and frequency using the Uniaxial Tension System. Expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and microsomal prostaglandin E2 synthase-1 (mPGES-1) in stretched and unstretched ESCs were assessed by realtime quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. Production of prostaglandin E2 (PGE(2)) in the culture medium was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The cyclic stretch mimicking hyperperistalsis in endometriosis (5% elongation at 4 cycles/min) stimulated quick up-regulations of COX-2 and mPGES-1 simultaneously on both transcriptional and translational levels, and delayed PGE(2) overproduction was also noted in ESCs. As the stretch magnitude or frequency increased, so did overexpression of COX-2 and PGE(2) (P < 0.05). By contrast, the cyclic stretch mimicking physiological peristalsis (3% elongation at 2 cycles/min) did not induce significant COX-2, mPGES-1 or PGE(2) production within 12 h. Both COX-2 and mPEGS-1 are PGE(2) synthases, and the aberrant COX-2 and PGE(2) production play important roles in the pathogenesis of endometriosis. Therefore, the present findings revealed that increased stretch stimuli from the hyperperistalsis of endometriosis were capable of causing the aberrant COX-2 and PGE(2) expression in the endometrium by mechanotransduction, in a magnitude and frequency-dependent manner. It implied possible roles of hyperperistalsis in the pathogenesis of endometriosis, particularly in the view of COX-2 and PGE(2).