Bcl-2 expression and prognosis of patients with endometrial carcinoma. Bcl-2 protein inhibits apoptosis, reduces the requirement for growth factors, and thereby extends the survival of cells. Recent findings of Bcl-2 in several solid tumors suggest that it might contribute to the genesis of some types of cancer. Over-expression of Bcl-2 might play a role in carcinogenesis and malignant progression of endometrial carcinoma. The aims of this study were to determine Bcl-2 expression in endometrial carcinoma in relation to other histopathologic prognostic factors, and to test its prognostic significance in patients with endometrial carcinoma. A total of 61 endometrioid-type endometrial carcinomas were immunohistochemically investigated for Bcl-2 expression on cryostat sections. Bcl-2 localization was observed in cytoplasm in 18 tumors, in nucleus in 27 tumors, or in both in 5 tumors. In 11 tumors, Bcl-2 was observed neither in cytoplasm nor in nucleus. There was not a statistically significant relationship between grade of tumor and Bcl-2 expression. Cytoplasmic Bcl-2 became less frequently expressed as the tumor invaded the myometrium deeper (p < 0.025). Retroperitoneal lymph-node dissection was performed in 57 patients. Multiple-regression analysis showed that lymph-vascular space invasion and nuclear expression of Bcl-2 were correlated to pelvic lymph-node metastasis (p < 0.0001 and < 0.05 respectively). Univariate Cox regression analysis revealed that nuclear Bcl-2 expression was associated with shorter survival (p < 0.05) than that of patients with cytoplasmic Bcl-2 expression. Pelvic node metastasis was a significant prognostic factor for patients who underwent systematic retroperitoneal lymph-node dissection. Cox multivariate-regression analysis revealed that pelvic node metastasis and cervical invasion were the most important prognostic factors in this series of patients. When the analysis was made after exclusion of pelvic node metastasis, histologic grade (hazard ratio = 2.4), cervical invasion (hazard ratio = 3.7) and nuclear Bcl-2 expression (hazard ratio = 11.5) were shown to be significant predictors of survival of the patients. These results indicate that aberrant Bcl-2 expression might be involved in malignant progression of endometrioid-type endometrial carcinoma. Site of Bcl-2 localization may be an important predictor of prognosis for patients with endometrioid-type endometrial carcinoma.