<TEXT>&#2;<DATELINE>2005-12-31</DATELINE><TITLE>Immunodominant viral peptides as determinants of cross-reactivity in the immune system – Can we develop wide spectrum viral vaccines?</TITLE><BODY>Summary When we look back to Edward Jenner vaccination of a young man in 1796, we cannot help thinking that he was both lucky and crazy. Crazy because he decided to test in a human being a hypothesis based mainly in the traditional belief that people who had acquired cowpox from the udders of a cow were thereafter resistant to smallpox, a quite devastating disease, and lucky because (even considering that he did not know this at that time) he succeeded to induce protection against a pathogen through the induction of an immune response directed against a different agent. Not only was he able to protect the young man but he took the first step towards the development of a vast new field, vaccination. It is acceptable to say that Jenner was lucky because he succeeded in promoting protection against smallpox using a cowpox virus and this induction of protection in a cross-reactive way is believed to be quite rare. Nevertheless, more and more examples of cross-reactive immune responses are being described and we are beginning to admit that cross-reactivity is far more common and important than we used to think. Here we review cross-reactivity in the immune system and the plasticity of T cell recognition. Based on the existence of T cell receptor promiscuous recognition and cross-recognition of conserved viral immunodominant epitopes, we propose two approaches to develop wide spectrum viral vaccines. The first one is based on the identification, characterization, and cloning of immunodominant viral epitopes able to stimulate responses against different viruses. The produced peptides could then be purified and serve as a basis for vaccine therapies. A second strategy is based on the identification of conserved patterns in immunodominant viral peptides and the production of synthetic peptides containing the amino acid residues necessary for MHC anchoring and TCR contact. Although we are still far from a complete knowledge of the cross-reactivity phenomenon in the immune system, the analysis of immunodominant viral epitopes and the identification of particular “viral patterns” seems to be important steps towards the development of wide spectrum viral vaccines.&#3;</BODY></TEXT>