SPECT imaging of the dopamine transporter with [(123)I]-beta-CIT reveals marked decline of nigrostriatal dopaminergic function in Parkinson's disease with urinary dysfunction. We studied a correlation of urinary dysfunction with nigrostriatal dopaminergic deficit in Parkinson's disease (PD) by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging of dopamine transporter with [123I]-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropane (beta-CIT). Eleven patients were enrolled in the study, including four men and seven women, with a mean age of 64 years. Seven patients had urinary symptoms 1-5 years after the onset of motor disorder, which included nighttime frequency in six, urinary retardation in four, daytime frequency in one and urge urinary incontinence in one. Using a SPECT camera, the ratio specific to nondisplaceable [123I]-beta-CIT uptake, designated as "striatal V3" was obtained in the caudate, anterior and posterior putamen 24 h after the tracer injection. The striatal V3 was compared in patients with and without urinary dysfunction, and between men and women, using unpaired Student's t-test. Correlation of motor dysfunction and duration of illness with urinary dysfunction, was also analyzed. In the patients, there was a reduction of [123I]-beta-CIT binding in the striatum on both sides, particularly in the putamen contralateral to the affected body side. The striatal V3 of the caudate (p<0.01, Rt p<0.05, Lt), anterior putamen (p<0.05, Rt) and posterior putamen (p<0.05, Rt) in patients with urinary dysfunction was significantly reduced than those without urinary dysfunction. No sex difference was seen in reduction of [123I]-beta-CIT binding. Urinary dysfunction in PD was more common in patients with higher Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) score, higher Hoehn-Yahr grade, but not in those with longer duration of disease, although there was no statistical significance. It is likely that our results reflect the association of urinary dysfunction and degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic cells in PD.