Should aggressive surgery ever be part of the management of small cell lung cancer? CMT with surgery and chemotherapy is feasible, the toxicity is manageable, and postoperative morbidity and mortality rates are acceptable. Patient selection is important, and the results of the LCSG trial indicate that surgical resection will not benefit most patients who have limited SCLC. The chances of long-term survival and cure are strongly correlated with pathologic TNM stage. Consideration of surgery for patients who have SCLC should be limited to those with stage I disease and perhaps some patients with stage II tumors. Therefore, before surgery is undertaken, patients should undergo extensive radiologic staging with CT, MRI, and perhaps even positron emission tomographic scanning and mediastinoscopy, even if the radiologic assessment of the mediastinum is negative. Surgery may be considered for patients with T1-T2 NO SCLC tumors, and whether it is offered as the initial treatment or after induction chemotherapy remains controversial [40,43]. If SCLC is identified unexpectedly at the time of thoracotomy, complete resection and mediastinal lymph node resection should be undertaken, if possible. Chemotherapy is recommended postoperatively for all patients, even those with pathologic stage I tumors. Surgery likely has very little role to play for most patients with stage II disease and virtually no role for patients with stage III tumors. Even though chemotherapy can result in dramatic shrinkage of bulky mediastinal tumors, the addition of surgical resection does not contribute significantly to long-term survival for most patients, as shown conclusively by the LCSG trial. The final group of patients who may benefit from surgical resection are those with combined small cell and non-small cell tumors. If a mixed-histology cancer is identified at diagnosis, the initial treatment should be chemotherapy to control the small cell component of the disease, and surgery should be considered for the non-small cell component. For patients who demonstrate an unexpectedly poor response to chemotherapy, and for patients who experience localized late relapse after treatment for pure small cell tumors, a repeat biopsy should be performed. Surgery may be considered if residual NSCLC is confirmed.