Importance of the residue Asp 290 on chain length selectivity and catalytic efficiency of recombinant Staphylococcus simulans lipase expressed in E. coli. In addition to their physiological importance, microbial lipases, like staphylococcal ones, are of considerable commercial interest for biotechnological applications such as detergents, food production, and pharmaceuticals and industrial synthesis of fine chemicals. The gene encoding the extracellular lipase of Staphylococcus simulans (SSL) was subcloned in the pET-14b expression vector and expressed in Esherichia coli BL21 (DE3). The wild-type SSL was expressed as amino terminal His6-tagged recombinant protein. One-step purification of the recombinant lipase was achieved with nickel metal affinity column. The purified His-tagged SSL (His6-SSL) is able to hydrolyse triacylglycerols without chain length selectivity. The major differences among lipases are reflected in their chemical specificity in the hydrolysis of peculiar ester bonds, and their respective capacity to hydrolyse substrates having different physico-chemical properties. It has been proposed, using homology alignment, that the region around the residue 290 of Staphylococcus hyicus lipase could be involved in the selection of the substrate. To evaluate the importance of this environment, the residue Asp290 of Staphylococcus simulans lipase was mutated to Ala using site-directed mutagenesis. The mutant expression plasmid was also overexpressed in Esherichia coli and purified with a nickel metal affinity column. The substitution of Asp290 by Ala was accompanied by a significant shift of the acyl-chain length specificity of the mutant towards short chain fatty acid esters. Kinetic studies of wild-type SSL and its mutant D290A were carried out, and show essentially that the catalytic efficiency (k cat /K M ) of the mutant was affected. Our results confirmed that Asp290 is important for the chain length selectivity and catalytic efficiency of Staphylococcus simulans lipase.