Evaluation of the Hsp90 inhibitor NVP-AUY922 in multicellular tumour spheroids with respect to effects on growth and PET tracer uptake. Molecular targeting has become a prominent concept in cancer treatment and heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) inhibitors are suggested as promising anticancer drugs. The Hsp90 complex is one of the chaperones that facilitate the refolding of unfolded or misfolded proteins and plays a role for key oncogenic proteins such as Her2, Raf-1, Akt/PKB, and mutant p53. NVP-AUY922 is a novel low-molecular Hsp90 inhibitor, currently under clinical development as an anticancer drug. Disruption of the Hsp90-client protein complexes leads to proteasome-mediated degradation of client proteins and cell death. The aim of the current study was to use a combination of the multicellular tumour spheroid (MTS) model and positron emission tomography (PET) to investigate the effects of NVP-AUY922 on tumour growth and its relation to PET tracer uptake for the selection of appropriate PET tracer. A further aim was to evaluate the concentration and time dependence in the relation between growth inhibition and PET tracer uptake as part of translational imaging activities.MTS of two breast cancer cell lines (MCF-7 and BT474), one glioblastoma cell line (U87MG) and one colon carcinoma cell line (HCT116) were prepared. Initially, we investigated MTS growth pattern and (3)H-thymidine incorporation in MTS after continuous exposure to NVP-AUY922 in order to determine dose response. Then the short-term effect of the drug on the four PET tracers 2-[(18)F] fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG), 3'-deoxy-3'-fluorothymidine (FLT), methionine and choline was correlated to the long-term effect (changes in growth pattern) to determine the adequate PET tracer with high predictability. Next, the growth inhibitory effect of different dose schedules was evaluated to determine the optimal dose and time. Finally, the effect of a 2-h exposure to the drug on growth pattern and FDG/FLT uptake was evaluated.A dose-dependent inhibition of growth and decrease of (3)H-thymidine uptake was observed with 100% growth cessation in the dose range 7-52 nM and 50% (3)H-thymidine reduction in the range of 10-23 nM, with the most pronounced effect on BT474 cells. The effect of the drug was best detected by FLT. The results suggested that a complete cessation of growth of the viable cell volume was achieved with about 50% inhibition of FLT uptake 3 days after continuous treatment. Significant growth inhibition was observed at all doses and all exposure time spans. Two-hour exposure to NVP-AUY922 generated a growth inhibition which persisted dose dependently up to 10 days. The uptake of FDG per viable tumour volume was reduced by just 25% with 300 nM treatment of the drug, whereas the FLT uptake decreased up to 75% in correlation with the growth inhibition and recovery.Our results indicate a prolonged action of NVP-AUY922 in this cell culture, FLT is a suitable tracer for the monitoring of the effect and a FLT PET study within 3 days after treatment can predict the treatment outcome in this model. If relevant in vivo, this information can be used for efficient planning of animal PET studies and later human PET trial.