Reduced-count myocardial perfusion SPECT with resolution recovery. The aim of this study was to determine whether resolution recovery (RR) iterative reconstruction algorithms can consistently produce diagnostic quality myocardial perfusion SPECT images for the patient population routinely scanned in this department. Reduced-count data were compared with full-count data without RR according to our established protocol. The desired outcome would be to implement the software to allow a reduction in the administered activity for routine myocardial SPECT.Half-count SPECT data were derived from full-count datasets for 53 stress and rest routine myocardial SPECT scans on a GE Infinia camera. Full-count data were reconstructed using standard non-RR ordered subset expectation maximization reconstruction, whereas half-count data were reconstructed using Evolution RR software. Myocardial functional values, image quality and report outcomes of the full-count and half-count reports were compared. Sequential full-time and half-time myocardial SPECT acquisitions were performed for 15 stress and rest studies on a Siemens c.cam dedicated cardiac camera. Half-count data were reconstructed using Siemens Flash 3D RR.No degradation in image quality was found when comparing full-count and half-count studies from the Infinia. Ten percent of the half-count studies from the c.cam were considered slightly worse than full-count data. Statistically significant differences in some full-count versus half-count functional values were found but the actual mean differences were not considered clinically significant. No difference was found for 44 out of 53 full-count versus half-count reports, a minor difference for seven out of 53 and a significant difference in two cases.RR was found to produce diagnostic image quality for nearly all scans, but it was felt that a reduction of 50% from our standard protocol was too great. A proposed reduction of 33% administered activity was considered acceptable to produce consistently adequate diagnostic images for both manufacturers.