The evaluation and calibration of fan-beam collimators. The aims of this study were (a) to determine the true focal length of a fan-beam collimator and (b) to calibrate image size (mm/pixel) for each collimator to permit inter-comparison of image data acquired on different gamma camera systems. A total of six fan-beam collimators on three dual-head gamma camera systems were evaluated using a set of four cobalt-57 point source markers. The markers were arranged in a line in the transverse plane with a known separation between them. Tomographic images were obtained at three radii of rotation. From reconstructed transaxial images the distance between markers was measured in pixels and used to determine pixel size in mm/pixel. The system value for the focal length of the collimator was modified by up to +/-100 mm and transaxial images were again reconstructed. To standardize pixel size between systems, the apparent radius of rotation during a single-photon emission tomography (SPET) acquisition was modified by changes to the effective collimator thickness. SPET images of a 3D brain phantom were acquired on each system and reconstructed using both the original and the modified values of collimator focal length and thickness. Co-registration and subtraction of the reconstructed transaxial images was used to evaluate the effects of changes in collimator parameters. Pixel size in the reconstructed image was found to be a function of both the radius of rotation and the focal length. At the correct focal length, pixel size was essentially independent of the radius of rotation. For all six collimators, true focal length differed from the original focal length by up to 26 mm. These differences in focal length resulted in up to 6% variation in pixel size between systems. Pixel size between the three systems was standardized by altering the value for collimator thickness. Subtraction of the co-registered SPET images of the 3D brain phantom was significantly improved after optimization of collimator parameters, with a 35%-50% reduction in the standard deviation of residual counts in the subtraction images. In conclusion, we have described a simple method for measurement of the focal length of a fan-beam collimator. This is an important parameter on multidetector systems for optimum image quality and where accurate co-registration of SPET to SPET and SPET to MRI studies is required.