Neuronal correlates of real and illusory contour perception: functional anatomy with PET. Illusory contours provide a striking example of the visual system's ability to extract a meaningful representation of the surroundings from fragmented visual stimuli. Psychophysical and neurophysiological data suggest that illusory contours are processed in early visual cortical areas, and neuroimaging studies in humans have shown that Kanizsa-type illusory contours activate early retinotopic visual areas that are also activated by real contours. It is not known whether other types of illusory contours are processed by the same mechanisms, nor is it clear to what extent attentional effects may have influenced these results, as no attempt was made to match the salience of real and illusory stimuli in previous imaging studies. It therefore remains an open question whether there are any brain regions specifically involved in the perception of illusory contours. To address these questions, we have used 15O-butanol positron emission tomography (PET) and a novel kind of illusory contour stimulus that is induced only by aligned line ends. By employing a form discrimination task that was matched for attention and stimulus salience across conditions we were able to directly contrast perception of real and illusory contours. We found that the regions activated by illusory contour perception were the same as those activated by real contours. Only one region, located in the right fusiform gyrus, was significantly more strongly activated by perception of illusory contours than by real contours. In addition, a principal component analysis suggested that illusory contour perception is associated with a change in the correlation between V1 and V2. We conclude that different kinds of illusory contours are processed by the same cortical regions and that these regions overlap extensively with those involved in processing of real contours. At the regional level, perception of illusory contours thus appears to differ from perception of real contours by the degree of involvement of higher visual areas as well as by the nature of interaction between early visual areas.