An approach for comparative quantification of myocardial blood flow (O-15-H2O-PET), perfusion (Tc-99m-tetrofosmin-SPECT) and metabolism (F-18-FDG-PET). In the present study a new approach has been developed for comparative quantification of absolute myocardial blood flow (MBF), myocardial perfusion, and myocardial metabolism in short-axis slices.42 patients with severe CAD, referred for myocardial viability diagnostics, were studied consecutively with 0-15-H2O PET (H2O-PET) (twice), Tc-99m-Tetrofosmin SPECT (TT-SPECT) and F-18-FDG PET (FDG-PET). All data sets were reconstructed using attenuation correction and reoriented into short axis slices. Each heart was divided into three representative slices (base, midventricular, apex) and 18 ROIs were defined on the FDG PET images and transferred to the corresponding H2O-PET and TT-SPECT slices. TT-SPECT and FDG-PET data were normalized to the ROI showing maximum perfusion. MBF was calculated for all left-ventricular ROIs using a single-compartment-model fitting the dynamic H2O-PET studies. Microsphere equivalent MBF (MBF_micr) was calculated by multiplying MBF and tissue-fraction, a parameter which was obtained by fitting the dynamic H2O-PET studies. To reduce influence of viability only well perfused areas (> 70% TT-SPECT) were used for comparative quantification.First and second mean global MBF values were 0.85 ml x min-1 x g-1 and 0.84 ml x min-1 x g-1, respectively, with a repeatability coefficient of 0.30 ml x min-1 x g-1. After sectorization mean MBF_micr was between 0.58 ml x min-1 x ml-1 and 0.68 ml x min-1 x ml-1 in well perfused areas. Corresponding TT-SPECT values ranged from 83% to 91%, and FDG-PET values from 91% to 103%. All procedures yielded higher values for the lateral than the septal regions.Comparative quantification of MBF, MBF_micr, TT-SPECT perfusion and FDG-PET metabolism can be done with the introduced method in short axis slices. The obtained values agree well with experimentally validated values of MBF and MBF_micr.