FDG-PET improves the management of patients with suspected recurrence of colorectal cancer. This study aims to assess the influence of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) detection of recurrent disease on the management of patients with colorectal cancer and suspected recurrence. One hundred and twenty patients with suspected recurrence were studied with FDG-PET. Fifty-eight patients were referred for FDG-PET because of the elevation of serum tumour markers. Thirty-one patients were referred because of inconclusive results of conventional imaging modalities. Twenty-five patients had known recurrence and were referred for pre-surgical assessment. Six patients were referred because of abdominal pain. A major management change was considered when, as a consequence of FDG-PET results, medical treatment was changed to surgical, or surgical to medical or to no treatment. A minor management change was considered when changes were made within a treatment modality. Of the 58 patients with elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), FDG-PET detected recurrence and led to a major management change in 34 (58%). Eighteen underwent curative surgery and 16 were treated with systemic therapy. Of the 31 patients evaluated because of inconclusive results of conventional imaging modalities, FDG-PET was positive for recurrence in 24 and negative in seven. A major management change took place in 14 patients (45%). Of the 25 patients evaluated to rule out other sites of disease before surgery, FDG-PET did not show any other site of recurrence in 13 (52%) and showed more lesions in the remaining patients. Major management change took place in eight patients (32%). Overall, in the 120 patients studied, FDG-PET resulted in major management changes in 58 (48%), minor changes in four (3%) and no change in 54 (45%). It can be concluded that FDG-PET has a significant impact on the management of patients with suspected recurrence of colorectal cancer. FDG-PET detection of recurrence frequently allows curative surgical intervention. The early identification of distant metastases may also facilitate the implementation of systemic treatment.