Molecular imaging: an overview and clinical applications. Molecular imaging is a new medical discipline that integrates cell biology, molecular biology and diagnostic imaging. Clinical applications of molecular imaging include the use of nuclear medicine, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and ultrasound (US). The nuclear medicine applications utilize devices such as single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET). Molecular imaging has two basic applications. The first is diagnostic imaging, which is used to determine the location and extent of targeted molecules specific to the disease being assessed. The second is therapy, which is used to treat specific disease-targeted molecules. The basic principle of the diagnostic imaging application is derived from the ability of cell and molecular biologists to identify specific receptor sites associated with target molecules that characterize the disease process to be studied. The biology teams then develop molecular imaging agents, which will bind specifically to the target molecules of interest. The principle for using molecular targeting therapy is based on an extension of the diagnostic imaging principle. Basically, it is assumed that if the molecular probe does target the specific disease molecules of interest, the same molecular agent can be loaded with an agent that will deliver therapy to the targeted cells. Patients and physicians have the clinical expectation that molecular imaging, when used for diagnostic purposes, will significantly improve the time-liness as well as the accuracy of detecting the presence and extent of disease. When applied to therapy, the expectation is that FDA-approved agents will have been shown in clinical trials to provide a significant improvement in clinical outcomes over traditional therapy methods. The eventual clinical owners of molecular imaging may be a specialty group that is a hybrid by conventional measures. For example, the clinical owner should have fundamental knowledge in basic cellular and molecular biology but must also be certified as well as competent in the specific diagnostic imaging specialty applied (i.e. nuclear, MR or ultrasound). If the owner is also to be involved with therapy, experience and appropriate certification will also be required. Another issue relates specifically to the therapy applications in oncology. It is conceivable that traditional chemotherapy and radiotherapy may be replaced in part with molecular imaging therapy that utilizes target-specific agents to treat cancer on a non-toxic, outpatient basis. The issue to be addressed by the radiology administrator is whether this new discipline will be performed in the radiology department or oncology and radiotherapy departments. Clearly, radiology and its associated diagnostic imaging subspecialties are the most logical owner of molecular imaging. However, to make this ownership a reality will require major shifts in training requirements, as well as exertion of political influence from the radiology administrators against other specialties that have much to lose in terms of patient populations and revenue to their practice.