Magnetic resonance and nuclear medicine imaging in ataxias. Imaging techniques including computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and positron emission tomography (PET) have been widely applied to the investigation of patients with acute or chronic ataxias. Fundamentally, CT has a role in the emergency evaluation of the patient with acute ataxia to ascertain brainstem or cerebellar hemorrhage and to exclude a mass lesion in the posterior cranial fossa. Conventional MRI is the most frequently performed imaging investigation in patients with ataxia. It can support the diagnosis of acute cerebellitis and Wernicke encephalopathy by revealing T2 signal changes with a typical distribution. In patients with inherited or sporadic chronic ataxia it reveals three fundamental patterns of atrophy of the brainstem, cerebellum, and spinal cord which match the gross neuropathological descriptions. These are represented by olivopontocerebellar atrophy (OPCA), cortical cerebellar atrophy (CCA), and spinal atrophy (SA). A substantial correspondence exists among these patterns of atrophy shown by MRI and the etiological classification of inherited or acquired chronic ataxias. This, along with demonstration of T2 signal changes characteristic of some diseases, makes conventional MRI potentially useful for the diagnostic work-up of the single patient, especially in the case of a sporadic disease. Non-conventional MR techniques including diffusion MR, spectroscopy, and functional MR have been used in patients with acute or chronic ataxia, but their exact role in the evaluation of the single patient is not established yet. They are currently investigated as potential tools to monitor progression of neurodegeneration in chronic ataxia and to serve as "surrogate markers" in clinical trials. Several radiotracers have been utilized in combination with SPECT and PET in patients with ataxia. Perfusion SPECT can reveal cerebellar blood flow abnormalities early in the course of cerebellitis. It has also been utilized to investigate perfusion of the brain in several inherited or sporadic chronic ataxic diseases, contributing to improved understanding of the pathophysiology of these conditions. Recently, perfusion SPECT has been tested as a "surrogate marker" to verify the effects of newly developed therapies in patients with a variety of chronic ataxias. Whole-body FDG-PET is recommended in patients with suspected paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration to detect the primary malignancy. Brain FDG-PET has provided important information on the pathophysiology of several acquired and inherited conditions. PET and SPECT with radiotracers able to assess the nigrostriatal system or the density of D2 dopamine receptors in the striatum are increasingly used in patients with adult-onset sporadic ataxia for the differential diagnosis between multiple system atrophy in which overt striatal abnormalities are found and idiopathic late-onset cerebellar ataxia in which no abnormality is detected.