Anti-CEA immunoscintigraphy might be more useful than computed tomography in the preoperative thoracic evaluation of lung cancer. A comparison between planar immunoscintigraphy, single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and computed tomography. While a clinical, plain radiographic, and bronchoscopic assessment yields most of the essential information needed in lung cancer, computed tomography (CT) of the thorax provides diagnostic information previously unobtainable, potentially capable of reducing the number of explorative thoracotomies. In a few recent studies, immunoscintigraphy with anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (anti-CEA) monoclonal antibodies (MA) has shown remarkable staging potential. To compare the diagnostic accuracy of the two techniques, we photoscanned with indium-111 (111In)-labeled-F(ab')2 fragments of the murine anti-CEA MA FO23C5 45 patients, who were pathologically assessed for possible loco-regional extension of lung cancer. Both planar and single photo emission computed tomography (SPECT) images were obtained. Additionally, CT of the thorax (contiguous CT slices, 10 mm thick, from the lung apices to the upper abdomen), and other routine tests of preoperative evaluation were obtained. On the basis of 37 (N1, T3, and T4), 38 (N2), and 12 (N3) pathologically documented sites, an accuracy of 65, 76, 92, 78, and 86 percent (SPECT images), and 62, 68, 42, 78, and 84 percent (CT images) was calculated (figures are relevant to N1, N2, N3, T3, and T4 disease, respectively). Thus, both techniques shared a significant margin of error in almost all the categories of evaluation however, immunoscintigraphy showed equivalent, and, in the lymph node assessment, superior results to CT. A marginal improvement of diagnostic accuracy was recorded combining the three techniques in one case (SPECT plus planar immunoscintigraphic images), while there was no benefit in any possible integration of CT and immunoscintigraphic images. In patients with peripheral nonsquamous cell cancers, the accuracy of anti-CEA immunoscintigraphy was of 90 percent or higher. Variations in the modality of performing immunoscintigraphy, such as changes in the dose of antibody fragments to be injected, in the percentage of radiolabeling, or in the time of imaging, affected the quality of immunoscintigraphic series, and the consequent interpretation of findings. At the present time, there are very few reliable tests capable of selecting patients to proceed directly to thoracotomy or to receive some intermediate surgical test, such as a prior mediastinoscopy. Traditionally, CT has been this type of "filter-test." If current findings will be confirmed in future studies, anti-CEA immunoscintigraphy might replace CT in the evaluation of particular subgroups of patients, such as patients with peripheral nonsquamous cell bronchogenic carcinoma.