Quantitative determination of left ventricular myocardial perfusion with electron beam computerized tomography. Myocardial perfusion is one of the most important functional parameters of the heart. Presently various indirect methods are used to determine coronary blood flow or myocardial perfusion as inertgas-, thermodilution-, Doppler catheter- and radiopharmacological techniques. Electron-beam-computed-tomographical technology is able to perform CT data acquisition with a very short exposure time of 50 ms. Using this method it is not only possible to determine left ventricular volumes but also to measure myocardial perfusion in ml/100 g/min. The measurement of the left myocardial perfusion is performed using the short axis view. This position is obtained by moving the table 25 degrees to the patient's right and 15 degrees caudally. To determine the position of the left ventricle, a localization scan is obtained in multi-slice-mode using all for target-rings, thus obtaining 8 tomographic levels over 68 mm (each tomographic level having a slice thickness of 7 mm, with an interslice gap of 4 mm between each two adjacent tomographic levels). In this short axis position, using the multi slice flow mode with 3 target-rings and after administration of 50 ml of contrast medium intravenously with a flow of 3 ml/s, 6 tomographic levels are imaged. Each tomographic level is obtained 13 times at 80% of the R-R-interval at each 2 or 3 heart beat (ECG-gated). The left ventricular myocardial contrast enhancement is measured by drawing manually the outline of the left ventricular myocardium using time-density-software of the Imatron workstation. For calculation of the myocardial perfusion the so-called "slope method" is used and the results are expressed as the maximum slope of enhancement of the myocardium divided by the difference of the precontrast and peak CT-value in the left ventricle. The global myocardial perfusion is calculated as a mean of all evaluated tomographic levels. In this study left ventricular volumes as enddiastolic volume endsystolic volume and stroke volume were measured and ejection fraction and cardiac output calculated. The measurements were performed in the log axis view. This view is obtained by moving the table 15 degrees to the patients left in a horizontal position. In this long axis position 6 tomographic levels are imaged using the multi-slice-cine-mode with 3 target-rings after administration of 50 ml of contrast medium intravenously with a flow of 3 ml/s. Each tomographic level is obtained 13 times starting at 0% of the R-R-interval (ECG-triggering). The exposure time is 50 ms with an interscan time delay of 8 ms. In 9 studied patients of whom one had 3 significant coronary artery stenotic lesions (> 50%), 2 patients had each 2 non significant stenotic lesions (< 50%) and 6 revealed nearly normal coronary angiograms. The mean global myocardial perfusion was 70 ml/100 g/min (min.32 and max. 116 ml/100 g/min). This mean value of 70 ml/100 g/min is reflecting 5% of the cardiac output supposing that the mean heart weight of these patients was 300 g. In this study the mean of the left ventricular muscle mass determined by the use of EBCT was 130 g. A comparative evaluation of coronary angiographic findings in these patients with the measured myocardial perfusion values revealed, that is not sufficient to look only at the absolute values of the measured myocardial perfusion. Furthermore it seems to be necessary to interpret these perfusion values with respect to the calculated cardiac output. Additional studies of well defined patients groups are necessary to determine normal values of myocardial perfusion at rest in patients with and without coronary artery disease. This seems to be important as comparative analysis of myocardial scintigraphic and EBCT-studies is difficult because of methodical inherent differences. The results of this study suggest that despite the presence of some beam hardening artifacts it is possible to measure myocardial perfusion using EBCT in patients with suspected coronary artery disease in the