Validation of salmonellosis and shigellosis diagnostic test kits at a provincial hospital in Thailand. Rapid Diagnosis of salmonellosis and shigellosis was performed using six different diagnostic test kits which recently have been made available commercially. They were Salmo-Dot, Typhi-Dot, Shigel Dot A, B, C, and D test kits for detection of Salmonella spp., group D salmonellae, and groups A, B, C, and D Shigella spp., respectively. The principle of all test kits is a membrane (dot) ELISA using specific monoclonal antibodies to the respective pathogens as the detection reagents. The present study was designed to validate the accuracy of the test kits, at a laboratory in a provincial hospital in Thailand, in comparison with the conventional bacterial culture method alone or with the combined results of the culture and the Western blot analysis (WB) for detecting the respective bacterial lipopolysacchharides (LPS) in specimens. Five hundred rectal swab samples of patients with diarrhea who seeked treatment at the hospital, were evaluated. The diagnostic accuracy of the Salmo-Dot was 91.0% when compared with the conventional bacterial culture method alone but was 100.0% in comparison with the combined results of the culture and the WB. The Typhi-Dot and the Shigel-Dot A, B, C, and D showed 100%, 99.2%, 95.0%, 94.0% and 96.4%, respectively when compared with the culture alone and all were 100% in comparison with the combination of the results of the bacterial culture and the WB. The Shigel-Dot A revealed antigen of type 1 Shigella dysenteriae in several specimens in which the bacteria could not be recovered by the culture method. This difference is important as type 1 Shigella dysenteriae have high epidemic potential and often cause severe morbidity. Unawareness of their presence by the conventional culture may have great impact on disease surveillance for public health. The pathogen detection using the six diagnostic test kits is sensitive, specific, rapid, and relatively simple and less expensive. Several specimens can be tested at the same time without much increase in turn around time. Moreover, these kits produce no contaminated waste as compared with the bacterial culture method. The test kits should be used for rapid screening of specimens of patients with diarrhea especially in areas where culture facilities are inadequate.