Comparison of the ELISA (lipopolysaccharide) and Widal reactions (O antigen) in the diagnosis of Salmonella infections. At various times after the onset of disease 50 sera of patients with bacteriologically proven salmonella infections were investigated for O-antigen specific antibodies in ELISA and Widal-tests. 21 of these sera were derived from patients with typhoid fever, 10 from patients with gastroenteritis due to various species of salmonella group D and 19 from patients with group B salmonella-gastroenteritis. Additional 44 sera stemming from patients without such infection were included in the investigation as a control. With ELISA the sera were examined for antibodies of the IgM- and IgG-class separately. As antigens lipopolysaccharide W-preparations from S. typhi ("group D-antigen") and S. typhimurium ("group B-antigen") were used in the ELISA. High reciprocal titers (geometric means: 1404, 2560, and 1020) of IgM were demonstrable in sera drawn 11-30 days after onset of the disease with group D- and group B-antigen respectively (Fig. 1, Table 1 and Table 2). With increasing distance of time from the onset of the disease these titers decreased rapidly. The titers of agglutinating antibodies as measured in the Widal-test behaved similarly to those of IgM (Fig. 1, Table 1 and 2), and the correlation between both was high (r = +0.93, Fig. 2). In contrast, titers of IgG-antibodies reached their maximum later, namely 31-60 days after onset of the disease (Table 1), and the correlation to the agglutinin-titers (r = +0.33, Fig. 3) was much lower. In sera of patients with typhoid fever reciprocal titers of IgM against the homogeneous group antigen surmounted those of IgG at the average by about 5 log2-step (mean g: 1404 and 79 respectively) between the 11th and 30th day of disease. At this stage of the disease also sera from patients with gastroenteritis due to both salmonella D or B demonstrated clearly an IgM-dominated ratio. After a period of more than 2 month this ratio was about 1:1 in sera of patients with typhoid fever or with salmonella group D-gastroenteritis, but was clearly IgG-dominated in sera obtained from patients with group B-gastroenteritis. This might be due to the fact that most of the sera classified as "obtained greater than 2 months after onset" stemmed from excreters of salmonella B species.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)