Immunogenicity of Ty21a attenuated "Salmonella typhi" given with sodium bicarbonate or in enteric-coated capsules. Ty21a, a stable attenuated mutant of Salmonella typhi, is a safe, protective oral vaccine when 3 doses of 10(9) cells in saline are taken after neutralization of gastric acidity by 1 g NaHCO3. To identify a more convenient method to administer vaccine and to determine the feasibility of immunizing with a single dose, we studied the immune response of children and adults to different formulations of Ty21a with a newly developed, sensitive, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In this ELISA, a rise in S. typhi O antibody was defined as a change in net optical density of greater than or equal to 0.15 (more than 3 SD from the mean difference in optical density in a negative control population). Three hundred and thirty-five Chilean children were given 3 doses of 10(9) Ty21a in 150 ml of milk with 0.8 g NaHCO3 or in enteric-coated capsules. In each group, 5% seroconverted by Widal O but 41% by IgG ELISA O antibody titers mean antibody levels by group were identical. Studies were also carried out in healthy college students in a non-endemic area (U.S.A.) who had no history of prior typhoid immunization. In total, 141 U.S. adults received vaccine formulated in either one of two ways: 1) in gelatin capsules administered with two additional gelatin capsules containing a total of 0.8 gm NaHCO3 or 2) in enteric-coated capsules. Thirty-six persons received one dose, 30 got two doses and 16 ingested three doses of enteric-coated vaccines, while 44 persons receiving one dose and 15 got two doses of vaccine in the gelatin capsule formulation. Rates of seroconversion of ELISA O antibody were similar in all the groups. Ty21a vaccine was not recovered from multiple stool, jejunal fluid or blood cultures of the U.S. vaccine recipients. Based on these observations a large-scale field trial of efficacy has been initiated in 90.000 schoolchildren 6-20 years of age in Santiago, Chile, of whom one-third received one dose of enteric-coated vaccine, one-third got two doses and the remainder received placebo.