Lower-extremity revascularisation without preoperative contrast arteriography in 185 cases: lessons learned with duplex ultrasound arterial mapping. we have previously reported our experience with lower-extremity duplex-ultrasound arterial mapping (DUAM) compared to contrast arteriography (CA) to predict lower-extremity bypass sites. The present study evaluates arterial revascularisation procedures for chronic limb ischaemia based on DUAM.from January 1998 to July 1999, 195 patients (128 men, 67 women) underwent 211 lower-extremity revascularisation procedures based on DUAM. Indications for surgery were tissue loss, severe claudication, rest pain and popliteal aneurysm in 57%, 25%, 14% and 4% of the limbs, respectively. The mean age was 72+/-12 years and risk factors such as diabetes, hypertension, tobacco use, coronary artery and end-stage renal disease were present in 53%, 58%, 53%, 50% and 12% of the patients, respectively. Previous revascularisation procedures had been performed in 23% of the limbs. Preoperative evaluation consisted of DUAM alone (185) or of a combination of DUAM and CA (29 limbs). CA was deemed necessary due to a combination of technical difficulties that jeopardized adequate sonographic imaging and presence of disadvantaged run-off for medico-legal reasons. DUAM consisted of direct imaging of all major arteries from the distal aorta to the pedal circulation. Optimal inflow and outflow bypass anastomotic sites were selected according to a diagram based on DUAM. Adequacy of the inflow was additionally assessed by common-femoral-artery waveform and confirmed by intraoperative pressure measurements. Post-bypass CA was obtained to verify patency of the run-off.DUAM procedure time averaged 75+/-26 min. For patients who underwent only DUAM, the distal anastomosis was to the popliteal artery in 91 cases and to tibial or pedal arteries in 58 cases. Distal anastomosis was proximal to a significant lesion in two cases that required jump grafts. Cumulative patency rates at 1 and 3 months for popliteal bypasses were 96% and 90%, and for infrapopliteal bypasses 90% and 83%, respectively. Inflow procedures to the femoral artery, patch and balloon angioplasties accounted for the remaining 40 cases. Four primary amputations were performed after CA confirmed DUAM findings.contrary to general belief, these data show that high-quality arterial ultrasonography represents a safe alternative to preoperative CA, even for infrapopliteal bypasses. This non-invasive approach may be especially useful for patients with contrast allergy or impaired renal function.