Duplex ultrasound scanning versus computed tomographic angiography for postoperative evaluation of endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. The purpose of this study was to compare duplex ultrasound scanning and computed tomographic (CT) angiography for postoperative imaging and surveillance after endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA).One hundred consecutive patients with AAA underwent endovascular (Medtronic AneuRx, stent graft) aneurysm repair and were imaged with both CT angiography and duplex ultrasound scanning at regular intervals after the procedure. Each imaging modality was evaluated for technical adequacy and for documentation of aneurysm size, endoleak, and graft patency. In concurrent scan pairs, accuracy of duplex scanning was compared with CT.A total of 268 CT scans and 214 duplex scans were obtained at intervals of 1 to 30 months after endovascular aneurysm repair (mean follow-up interval, 9+/-7 months). All CT scans were technically adequate, and 198 (93%) of 214 duplex scans were technically adequate for the determination of aneurysm size, presence of endoleak, and graft patency. Concurrent (within 7 days of each other) scan pairs were obtained in 166 instances in 76 patients (1-6 per patient). The maximal transverse aneurysm sac diameter measured with both methods correlated closely (r = 0.93 P <.001) without a significant difference on paired analysis. In 92% of scans, measurements were within 5 mm of each other. Diagnosis of endoleak on both examinations correlated closely (P <.001), and compared with CT, duplex scanning had a sensitivity of 81%, a specificity of 95%, a positive predictive value of 94%, and a negative predictive value of 90%. Discordant results occurred in 8% of examinations, and in none of these was the endoleak close to the attachment sites or associated with aneurysm expansion. An endoleak was demonstrated on both tests in all eight patients who had an endoleak judged severe enough to warrant arteriography. Graft patency was documented in each instance, without discrepancy, with both modalities.High-quality duplex ultrasound scanning is comparable to CT angiography for the assessment of aneurysm size, endoleak, and graft patency after endovascular exclusion of AAA.