Results and complications of endovascular therapy of aortic aneurysms. Endovascular repair (ER) has been established as an alternative treatment option for aortic aneurysm (AA) in case of a suitable morphology. However, there are specific problems related to diagnostic and therapeutic management including potential complications of the new procedure.Between 8/1996 and 11/1999, 41 patients (6 female, mean age 67.9 (range 55-84) years) underwent an operation with the intention of ER. Modular, self-expanding stent-grafts were used for aorto-biiliacal (36), aorto-monoiliacal (1), and aorto-aortal (infrarenal-1, thoracic-1) aortic aneurysm (AA) exclusion. Postoperatively and during the follow-up period, diagnostic measures included clinical investigation, native X-ray, and color-coded Doppler sonography, and spiral computed tomography, and digital subtraction angiography. Results were analysed with special reference to complications and resulting therapeutic consequences.Technical success was achieved in 36/41 patients (87.8%). There were 2 primary distal endoleaks and 3 conversions because of lacking vascular access. Of 4 primary endoleaks, a proximal one was treated successfully by overstenting, a distal one was sealed off by iliac extension, and 2 distal ones were treated conservatively. Three secondary endoleaks, a proximal and 2 distal ones, required conversion each by retro- and transperitoneal approach. Presently, there are 4 endoleaks, with the maximal aortic diameter remaining constant except one case. Five secondary occlusions of an iliac limb (4) or artery (1) were treated by thrombectomy (1), PTA (1), PTA with overstenting (1), and cross-over (1) or ilicofemoral bypass (1). Three patients died of unrelated disease during the follow-up period.On condition of a critical indication, improved diagnostic management and further refinement of stent-graft systems ER constitutes an alternative, minimally invasive treatment option for AA. Long-term results must be obtained by means of continued prospective and comparative studies to definitely evaluate ER.