The best of valvular heart disease in 2002. For AS, besides a very thorough update by Carabello on their management, new experimental work confirms that the pathophysiology of the condition is closer to atherosclerotic and inflammatory processes than pure degeneration. Moreover this year brings a batch of long term post-operative results, one of which is an important series relating to 2194 bioprostheses followed up for 15 years. The choice of valvular substitute between 60 and 70 years old is the subject for several studies. A series of 259 re-operations for bioprosthesis deterioration allows quantification of the operative risk to which those with this substitute are subjected in case of degeneration. Finally, the strategy to adopt in a patient with an indication for aortocoronary bypass but also with a not-tight AS is discussed (abstention, decalcification, or "preventive" valvular replacement?). For aortic insufficiency (AI) some new results for the Ross operation have been published and the first publications reporting on the attempts of experimental positioning of bioprostheses via the percutaneous route in animals are appearing. As for mitral valvulopathies, MI has carved a privileged place. Much work this year relates amongst other things to functional MI in dilated cardiomyopathies with dilatation of the ring, to the natural history of mitral valvular prolapse detailed in an important series of 833 patients, and to the evolutive risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) with MI and its treatment during plasty or mitral valvular replacement procedures. Anticoagulant treatment for mechanical prostheses is the subject of much work drawn from a large German prospective study (GELIA) confirming the general tendency for alleviation of intensity in aortic especially but also mitral valvulopathies, stressing the advantages of autocontrol. Finally, the Valvulopathy Working Group of the European Society of Cardiology publishes its recommendations for asymptomatic valvulopathies, recalling the echographic criteria of dilatation and left ventricular function to be retained for operative indications, emphasising furthermore the significance of the stress test in the follow up of asymptomatic AS.