Acute lower limb ischemia: the value of duplex ultrasound arterial mapping (DUAM) as the sole preoperative imaging technique. Contrast arteriography (CA) is the gold standard preoperative imaging modality for patients with chronic and acute lower limb ischemia. We have previously shown that high-quality DUAM can safely replace CA in patients with chronic ischemia. The goal of this study was to investigate whether DUAM can also be used effectively in the setting of acute ischemia. From January 1998 to February 2001, 68 patients were admitted to our institution with 87 instances of acute lower limb(s) ischemia and underwent 87 operations. There were 34 men and 34 women whose age ranged from 51 to 95 years (mean 72 +/- 12.5). There were 44 cases of acute arterial occlusions and 43 cases of bypass graft thromboses. In the former group the most proximal occluded site based upon duplex was the aorta in 1 case, common iliac in 4 cases, external iliac in 15 cases, and infrainguinal arteries in 24 cases. In the latter group, there were 4 suprainguinal grafts, 24 bypasses to the popliteal artery, and 15 bypasses to infrapopliteal arteries. All patients had DUAM as their initial diagnostic study. The duplex protocol varied according to the pulse exam. In patients with a good femoral pulse but absent popliteal pulse, attempts were made to visualize the ipsilateral femoral-popliteal segment and the proximal third of the infrapopliteal arteries. This was extended to the pedal arteries in cases of proximal occlusion. When the femoral pulse was absent the protocol included visualization of the distal aorta, bilateral iliac, and common femoral arteries. This exam was extended into the deep and superficial femoral-popliteal segments in cases of proximal occlusion. None of these cases had preoperative or prebypass CA. Intraoperative arterial pressures to confirm the adequacy of the inflow tract and completion arteriography to assess the runoff were performed in 78% of the cases at the end of the procedure. This initial experience suggests that high-quality DUAM may replace CA in patients with lower limb ischemia. DUAM provides a reliable assessment of the inflow and outflow arteries even in very low-flow situations. In addition, DUAM can identify the cause of the arterial occlusion, thereby making therapy more effective and less time consuming.