Endovascular treatment of celiac and mesenteric arteries stenoses: applications and results. To evaluate the safety and assess the role of endovascular therapy in a variety of conditions related to celiac and mesenteric vascular occlusive disease. Patients and methods Our retrospective study population included 25 consecutive patients (mean age, 66 years), in whom 28 procedures were performed on 26 stenosed or occluded mesenteric vessels (superior mesenteric artery [SMA] or celiac artery [CA]). Indications included chronic mesenteric ischemia (21 patients), including 2 patients who underwent stenting prior to a planned operative repair of a juxtamesenteric AAA. Three liver transplantation patients underwent stenting of an associated CA stenosis. One patient with a splenorenal bypass underwent stenting on an associated CA stenosis. The technical and clinical success rates and the incidence of complications were determined. Follow-up parameters included maintained patency on duplex sonography and sustained clinical benefit. The need for additional interventions was noted.All procedures but one were technically successful (96%). Major complications occurred in three patients (one transient contrast-induced nephrotoxicity and two pseudoaneurysms). Immediate clinical success was achieved in 22 patients (88%). The three clinical failures included two patients with an excellent angiographic outcome, but with single-vessel moderate severity disease. Survival table analysis of delayed clinical outcome showed primary and primary-assisted clinical benefits at 11 months of 85% and 91%, respectively. Primary and primary-assisted stent patencies, as assessed by duplex sonography and/or angiography, at 6 months were both 92%. Angiographically documented restenosis occurred in three patients. Restenosis in two patients with CA stents was due to extrinsic compression, and it was without symptoms in one patient and was treated satisfactorily by restenting in the other patient. Restenosis in one patient with an SMA stent was successfully treated by restenting.Our experience suggests a potential role for endovascular therapy of celiac and mesenteric arterial occlusive disease in a variety of clinical scenarios, with a low incidence of complications and a high technical success rate.