Incidence and treatment of hepatic artery complications after orthotopic liver transplantation. To investigate the incidence and treatment of hepatic artery complications after orthotopic liver transplantation.From February 1999 to May 2002, orthotopic liver transplantations (OLT) were performed in 72 patients with end-stage liver diseases with an average age of 40.2 +/- 13.6 years (ranged from 11 to 68 years), 56 were males and 16 females. The preoperative evaluation for the 72 patients was performed using duplex sonography, abdominal CT scan, and angiography of the hepatic artery. All donor grafts were perfused and preserved in University of Wisconsin solution at 4 degrees. OLT was performed with standard techniques with or without a veno-venous bypass. Reconstructions of hepatic artery were performed between the branch patches of gastroduodenal/hepatic or splenic/common hepatic artery confluence of the donors and recipients, and an end-to-end anastomosis between other arterial vessels of the donors and recipients was done. Arterial anastomosis was performed with interrupted 7-0/8-0 monofilament polypropylene suture under 3.5 x loupe magnification. Diagnosis of the complications of hepatic artery after OLT was based on the clinical presentations, ultrasound findings and arterial angiography. All patients were followed up regularly for duplex ultrasound scan after discharge.The overall incidence of arterial complications in 72 patients after OLTs was 1.4% (1/72). One 3 cm pseudoaneurysm at the side of anastomotic site of hepatic artery was found by urgent arteriogram due to hemoperitoneum secondary to bile leakage after OLT. Subsequently the pseudoaneurysm was successfully embolized and the blood flow toward the donor liver in hepatic artery remained. The overall postoperative 30-day mortality rate was 8.33%. The one-year survival rate was 83.72% in 50 patients with benign diseases and was 71.43% in 22 patients with malignant diseases following OLT. No death associated with complications of hepatic artery occurred.Careful preoperative evaluations and intraoperative microsurgical technique for hepatic artery reconstructions are the keys in prevention of hepatic artery complications after OLT.