Intraoperative stenting of pulmonary arteries. The surgical treatment of pulmonary artery stenoses in small children with complex cardiac lesions can be technically difficult. A hybrid-approach combining corrective surgery and intraoperative stent placement may be complementary in these patients.Descriptive study in 11 small children (age: one week to 12 years, median of 12 months, weight: 2.5-20 kg) after previous cardiac surgery. Intraoperative stenting of pulmonary arteries was performed involving paediatric cardiologist and cardiac surgeon. Stenting was combined with repair of pulmonary atresia (n=2), right ventricular outflow and pulmonary artery reconstruction (n=3), unifocalisation of pulmonary arteries (n=1), revision of distal anastomosis of RV-PA-conduit after truncus repair (n=1), revision of distal anastomosis of RV-PA-conduit after AVSD/Fallot repair (n=1), aortic arch patch reconstruction after anatomical correction for transposition of the great arteries (n=1), bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis after Norwood I operation for hypoplastic left heart syndrome, (n=1) retrieval of a dislodged stent from the left pulmonary artery (n=1). In seven patients stenting was planned electively while in four patients it took place on an emergency base.No complications occurred during stent implantation. One patient died three weeks postoperatively from diffuse bleeding due to a coagulation disorder. Ten patients left hospital after the surgical intervention with concomitant stent implantation. Stent re-dilatation was necessary in 4 patients 2-24 months postoperatively. After a median follow-up of 15 months ranging from 3 weeks to 7.5 years all stents were patent as diagnosed by angiography in 6 patients and by colour-Doppler in all other patients. One year after stent placement one stent was removed and another surgically opened during re-operation for conduit replacement in the smallest patient from this series. There was one late death during operative right ventricular outflow-tract reconstruction after initial stent placement.With intraoperative stent placement surgically difficult patch augmentation of small and fragile pulmonary vessels during repair of complex cardiac lesions can be avoided. Stents recruit pulmonary vessels and keep them open and amenable to future percutaneous or surgical interventions.