Treatment of type II endoleaks with a novel polyurethane thrombogenic foam: induction of endoleak thrombosis and elimination of intra-aneurysmal pressure in the canine model. The clinical significance and treatment of retrograde collateral arterial perfusion of abdominal aortic aneurysms after endovascular repair (type II endoleak) have not been completely characterized. A canine abdominal aortic aneurysm model of type II endoleak with an implanted pressure transducer was used to evaluate the use of polyurethane foam to induce thrombosis of type II endoleaks. The effect on endoleak patency, intra-aneurysmal pressure, and thrombus histology was studied.Prosthetic aneurysms with an intraluminal, solid-state, strain-gauge pressure transducer were created in the infrarenal aorta of 14 mongrel dogs. Aneurysm side-branch vessels were reimplanted into the prosthetic aneurysm of 10 animals by using a Carrel patch. Type II (retrograde) endoleaks were created by excluding the aneurysm from antegrade perfusion with an impermeable stent graft. Thrombosis of the type II endoleak was induced by implantation of polyurethane foam into the prosthetic aneurysm sac of four animals. Six animals with type II endoleaks were not treated. In four control animals, no collateral side branches were reimplanted, and therefore no endoleak was created. Intra-aneurysmal and systemic pressures were measured daily for 60 to 90 days after the implantation of the stent graft. Endoleak patency and flow were assessed during surgery and at the time of death by using angiographic imaging and duplex ultrasonography. Histologic analysis of the intra-aneurysmal thrombus was also performed.Intra-aneurysmal pressure values are indexed to systemic pressure and are represented as a percentage of the simultaneously obtained systemic pressure, which has a value of 1.0. All six animals with untreated type II endoleaks maintained patency of the endoleak and side-branch arteries throughout the study period. Compared with control aneurysms that had no endoleak, animals with patent type II endoleaks exhibited significantly higher intra-aneurysmal pressurization (systolic pressure: patent type II endoleak, 0.702 +/- 0.283 control, 0.172 +/- 0.091Untreated type II endoleaks were associated with intra-aneurysmal pressures that were 70% to 80% of systemic pressure. Treatment with polyurethane foam resulted in a reduction of intra-aneurysmal pressure to a level that was indistinguishable from control aneurysms that had no endoleak.Endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms is dependent on the successful exclusion of the aneurysm from arterial circulation. Type II endoleaks originate from retrograde flow into the aneurysm sac. This study demonstrates the use of polyurethane foam to induce thrombosis in a canine model of a type II endoleak, thereby reducing intra-aneurysmal pressure to levels similar to levels in animals without endoleaks. This approach may be a strategy for future treatment of type II endoleaks.