Beyond the aortic bifurcation: branched endovascular grafts for thoracoabdominal and aortoiliac aneurysms. To evaluate the use of novel technology to treat complex aortic aneurysms involving branches that provide critical end-organ blood supply.A prospective study was conducted in patients with thoracoabdominal, suprarenal, or common iliac aneurysms (TAA, SRA, or CIA) at high risk for open surgical repair. An endovascular graft using the Zenith platform was customized to fit patient anatomy (TAA or SRA) and combined with Jomed balloon-expandable stent-grafts. Prefabricated hypogastric branches were used with a Zenith abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) or Fluency self-expanding fenestrated device in conjunction with a self-expanding stent-graft. Analyses were conducted in accordance with the endovascular aneurysm reporting standards document. Follow-up studies occurred at discharge, 1, 6, and 12 months, and included computed tomography and duplex ultrasound scans, and flat plate radiography.Fifty patients were treated (9 TAA, 20 SRA, 21 CIA). The mean aneurysm size was 7.6 cm (TAA), 7.2 cm (SRA), and 6.1 cm AAA size associated with a mean CIA size of 3.8 cm. Bilateral CIA aneurysms were present in 86% (18/21) of patients with CIA aneurysms. Perioperative mortality was 2% (1/50) and resulted from a myocardial infarction after a planned conduit and iliac endarterectomy required for device access. Five late deaths occurred (2 TAA, 2 SRA, 1 CIA), three of which (2 TAA, 1 SRA) were aneurysm related. Failure to access internal iliac arteries occurred in three cases, and two late hypogastric branch thromboses occurred. No visceral branches were lost acutely or occluded during follow-up. Sac shrinkage (>5 mm) was noted in 65% of patients at 6 months and in all patients (10/10) by 12 months. There were no ruptures or conversions, but nine patients required secondary interventions.Branch vessel technology has made it technically feasible to preserve critical end-organ perfusion in the setting of CIA, SRA, and TAA aneurysms. The relatively low acute mortality rate and lack of short-term branch vessel loss are encouraging and merit further investigation. These advances have the potential to markedly diminish the complications associated with conventional management of complex aneurysms.