Suburethral readjustable sling (Remeex) for the treatment of female urinary incontinence: personal surgical technique. Currently there is not agreement about the adequate tension for each patient with female stress urinary incontinence treated with urethral slings. The adjustable tension sling Remeex (external mechanic regulation) allows adjustment to ideal tension trying to avoid or minimize possible reoperations. The objective of these paper is to describe the components of the Remeex system, its indications, and the surgical technique to implant and adjust it.The Remeex system is indicated for female urinary incontinence in cases of urethral hypermobility, fixed urethra, primary sphincteric dysfunction, failure of other incontinence repaired techniques, and urinary incontinence in bladder hyperreflexia.The diagnosis is made with appropriate history and physical examination and completed with voiding cystourethrogram and urodynamic study, urinary tract ultrasound and, optionally, urethrocystoscopy. Remeex prosthesis characteristics: The system has three elements: polypropylene mesh, pressure tensor, and disconnection tool.1. Anesthesia: It maybe performed under general or spinal anesthesia. 2. Preparation and patient position. 3. Surgical technique step-by-step:--Abdominal access: 4-6 cm suprapubic incision and development of a supra- aponeurotic space to place the pressure tensor.--Vaginal access: longitudinal incision 1 cm from the urethra meatus, dissection of the vesicovaginal plane, and development of the space to place the polypropylene mesh.--Combined abdominal-vaginal access: bilateral punction with a 20 cm suture-passing needle from the abdomen to the vagina and passage of the mesh from the paraurethral espace threading its sutures in the pressure tensor system, and closure of the incisions.--Cystoscopy.--Tension adjustment and postoperative control.1. It is an easy to implant system and a reproducible operation. 2. This technique avoids the morbidity of abdominal operations. 3. It allows the readjustment after surgery through a small suprapubic incision under local anesthesia. 4. Good results have been described in the short and mid-term.