Dynamic geometry and wall thickness of the aortic neck of abdominal aortic aneurysms with intravascular ultrasonography. It is commonly assumed that the aortic wall deforms uniformly and has uniform wall thickness about the circumference. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the aortic wall motion and thickness in the infrarenal aortic neck of patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms who were undergoing endovascular repair (EVAR) and to compare the dynamic measurements of intravascular ultrasonography with the static measurements of computed tomographic angiography (CTA).A total of 25 patients were evaluated before surgery with CTA and three-dimensional reconstructions on a Vitrea workstation, followed by intraoperative assessment of the proximal aortic neck with intravascular ultrasonography (IVUS) before EVAR. Infrarenal aortic neck dimensions on CTA were obtained at 1-mm intervals, but for the purposes of this study all dimensions on CTA were obtained 1 cm below the lowest renal artery. IVUS analysis of the proximal aortic neck was obtained with a 10-second recorded data loop of aortic wall motion. A Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine viewer was used to view the recorded loop of aortic movement, and each image was captured and then evaluated with a SCION PCI Frame Grabber to determine aortic dimensions and wall thickness. IVUS diameters (250 measurements of each aorta) were recorded through a full continuous cardiac cycle from the epicenter of the lumen (maintaining the left renal vein in its normal anatomic configuration) in an anteroposterior (AP) direction in the area of greatest wall movement and 90 degrees perpendicular to this direction (lateral movement).There was significant variation in infrarenal aortic wall movement about the circumference, with 1.7 +/- 0.6 mm (range, 0.6-2.7 mm) displacement in the AP direction and 0.9 +/- 0.5 mm (range, 0.3-1.5 mm) displacement in the lateral direction (P < .001). Aortic wall thickness was greater in the region of increased AP wall motion than in the area of lesser lateral wall motion (2.3 +/- 0.6 mm vs 1.2 +/- 0.3 mm P < .001). There was no difference between the IVUS and CTA aortic neck measurements (25.5 vs 25.6 mmThe infrarenal neck of aortic aneurysms deforms anisotropically during the cardiac cycle. The greatest displacement is in the AP direction and corresponds with a significantly greater wall thickness in this area. The magnitude of cyclic change in aortic diameter can be as high as 11%. Further evaluation of proximal aortic neck wall motion after EVAR is warranted to determine the interaction of various stent designs and the aortic wall.