Multimedia article. Thoracoscopic patch repair of a right-sided congenital diaphragmatic hernia in a neonate. Minimally invasive techniques continue to expand in pediatric surgery however, there has been some debate over the appropriate operative technique for the management of congenital diaphragmatic hernias in neonates. We present a video of a thoracoscopic patch repair of a right-sided Bochdalek congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) in a 3-day-old male.Our patient was noted to have a right-sided CDH on chest X-ray following respiratory distress at the time of birth. The patient's remaining neonatal workup also confirmed hypoplastic transverse aortic arch with coarctation, ventricular septal defect (VSD), and patent ductus arteriosus, which were initially diagnosed by prenatal ultrasound. After monitoring the patient for hemodynamic stability and discussion with the family and involved pediatric cardiothoracic surgeons, the decision was made to proceed with a thoracoscopic repair of the CDH.The large right-sided CDH was noted to involve herniated small bowel, colon, and liver. The diaphragmatic defect was successfully repaired thoracoscopically using a 5 x 5 cm polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) patch. The patient was extubated on the second postoperative day and ultimately underwent aortic arch augmentation, VSD closure, and patent ductus arteriosus ligation and division at 1 month of age. There has been no evidence of CDH recurrence in follow-up.As demonstrated by our video, large right-sided congenital diaphragmatic hernias requiring patch repair can be successfully repaired thoracoscopically with appropriate surgeon comfort and experience. This minimally invasive approach may also be used in neonates with associated cardiac defects with appropriate cardiothoracic surgical consultation and support. To our knowledge this is the first reported case of a thoracoscopic repair of a Bochdalek (posterolateral) hernia with a prosthetic patch in a neonate with significant congenital cardiac anomalies.