Novel sutureless telescoping anastomosis revascularization technique of supra-aortic vessels to simplify combined open endovascular procedures in the treatment of aortic arch pathologies. We report our clinical experience with the use of a sutureless telescoping anastomosis, initially described as the VORTEC (Viabahn Open Rebranching TEChnique) revascularization technique, for debranching of supra-aortic vessels.Between May 2005 and December 2008, 20 patients (15 men) with an aortic arch lesion underwent trans-sternal debranching with sutureless telescoping anastomosis performed with a Viabahn (diameter, 5-8 mm length, 5-15 cm) or Hemobahn (diameter, 9-13 mmOverall, 56 supra-aortic vessels in the 20 patients were debranched by sutureless telescoping anastomosis, including the carotid artery in 18, subclavian artery in 13, and left vertebral artery in 1. Technical success was 100%. The mean ischemia time was 3 minutes (range, 1-9 minutes) for the debranching procedure vs 6 minutes (range, 5-16 minutes) for a conventional suture anastomosis. The 30-day mortality rate was 15% (3 if 20) 28.5% (2 of 7) in urgent cases and 7.6% (1 of 12) in elective patients. Three patients (15%) had neurologic deficits after debranching in the conventionally-sutured anastomosis territories. No early (<30 days) occlusion occurred. During a mean follow-up of 14 +/- 9 months (range, 1-39 months), one patient with Takayasu disease showed asymptomatic occlusion of a Viabahn implanted into the left common carotid artery. Stenosis in the aortic anastomosis of the bypass graft in another patient was successfully treated by angioplasty and stent placement through the right brachial artery.Sutureless telescoping anastomosis with a Viabahn or a Hemobahn in supra-aortic debranching seems to be a safe and reliable alternative to sutured anastomosis. It enables safe and fast-track revascularizations, especially in anatomically challenging situations, and requires a very short ischemia time. Questions about long-term results and the technique reproducibility must be addressed.