Clinical experiences on correction of congenital heart diseases with robotic technology: a report of 160 cases. To summarize the clinical experiences on correction of congenital heart disease with robotic technology at a single center.Between January 2007 and May 2012, this retrospective study recruited 160 consecutive patients undergoing robotic surgery for congenital heart diseases. There were 74 males and 86 females with a median age of 35 years (range: 11-62). The procedures included secundum-type atrial septal defect repair (n = 130), ostium primum defect repair (n = 1), perimembranous ventricular septal defect repair (n = 21), mitral valve repair for anterior leaflet cleft (n = 7) and mitral valve repair plus left atrial myxoma resection (n = 1). Cardiopulmonary bypass graft was established through cannulation of right femoral artery, vein and right internal jugular vein under the guidance of transesophageal ultrasound. Myocardial protection was performed with cold blood cardioplegic solution or HTK solution and a transthoracic Chitwood clamp was used to occlude ascending aorta. Via three 8-mm ports and one 15-mm port in right chest, the microscopic instruments were manipulated to complete defect closure or mitral valve plasty, utilizing da Vinci S or da Vinci SI robotic system. Echocardiography was performed intraoperatively and at pre-discharge. Routine follow-ups were conducted. The clinical data of operating time, cardiopulmonary bypass time and follow-up examinations were retrospectively analyzed.All cases were treated successfully without a conversion into median sternotomy. No operative mortality or severe surgical complications were observed. Seventy-six cases of secundum-type atrial septal defect were completed on beating heart. The learning curves were noted for operating time of beating heart group and cross clamp time of arrest heart group. No residual shunt, malignant arrhythmia or mitral valve regurgitation was detected on intraoperative or postoperative echocardiography and during a median follow-up period of (29.1 ± 16.3) months.Robotic minimal access is technically feasible and it may be applied in selective patients with atrial septal defect, perimembranous ventricular septal defect and mitral valve cleft.