Nipple-areola-complex sparing mastectomy: five years of experience in a single centre. This study aimed at assessing the outcomes of nipple-areola-complex-sparing mastectomy (NSM) of breast cancer in a single-centre and single-surgeon series after 5 years of experience. From June 2007 to January 2012, 58 female patients with breast cancer were admitted for NSM at our unit and 55 of these underwent NSM. All patients underwent a preoperative clinical and instrumental evaluation. The clinical evaluation consisted of physical examination by taking measurements of the prosthesis and through anamnesis. The instrumental evaluation used were mammography, chest X-ray, abdominal and breast ultrasound, blood test and, if necessary, magnetic resonance imaging. Specific inclusion criteria have been met in recruiting patients: clinically negative axillas, tumours < 3 cm in any of the quadrants, tumours more than 1 cm away from the NAC. The patients underwent a surgical and oncological follow-up. The surgical follow-up consisted in treating wounds, managing drainages and tissue expanders and then planning the replacement surgeries. The oncological follow-up consisted of periodical medical (such as blood tests including cancer markers) and radiological evaluations (such as mammography, chest X-ray, abdominal and transvaginal ultrasound scan and/or thorax-abdomen computed tomography) to assess the disease progression, and, if necessary the patients underwent chemotherapy or hormonal therapy. Out of 58 recruited patients undergoing NSM, only 3 patients (5.1 %) had an occult tumour in the NAC at intraoperative extemporaneous histological examination and required the NAC removal. The other 55 patients (94.9 %) did not have neoplastic involvement of NAC and at an average follow-up period of 21.7 months (range 3-55 months) only 4 (7.2 %) had disease progression. Nipple-Sparing Mastectomy is a highly specialized and oncologically sure procedure to be performed only in reference centres on selected patients.