Pushing the limits-further evolutions of transcatheter valve procedures in the mitral position, including valve-in-valve, valve-in-ring, and valve-in-native-ring. Transcatheter heart valve (THV) procedures are constantly evolving. We report our experience with valve-in-valve, valve-in-ring, and direct-view valve-in-native-ring implantation in the mitral position.Fourteen patients undergoing THV implantation in the mitral position were included. Clinical and postoperative data, including echocardiography and further follow-up, were analyzed.Ten valve-in-valve and 2 valve-in-ring procedures were successfully performed using the transapical access route. For the third valve-in-ring procedure we used an antegrade left-atrial access via right anterolateral minithoracotomy. In 1 patient surgical mitral valve replacement was planned. Intraoperatively, the annulus appeared severely calcified and regular implantation of a bioprosthesis was not possible. As a last resort, a 29-mm Sapien XT valve (Edwards Lifesciences Inc, Irvine, Calif) was implanted under direct view. The initial result was satisfactory, but on the first postoperative day relevant paravalvular regurgitation occurred. Subsequently, the valve was fixed to an atrial cuff by 1 running suture. In this series 27-, 29-, and 31-mm bioprostheses and 28- and 30-mm annuloplasty rings were treated with 26- or 29-mm Sapien XT valves. Postoperative echocardiography on day 10 and after 6 weeks revealed good prosthesis function in all cases. In 2 valve-in-valve patients who solely received anticoagulation therapy with acetylsalicylic acid, signs of beginning valve thrombosis occurred after 8 weeks and 3 months, respectively. During further course, valve function was normalized using warfarin therapy.Our results demonstrate feasibility of valve-in-valve and valve-in-ring THV procedures in the mitral position. Permanent anticoagulation therapy with warfarin seems to be necessary to prevent valve dysfunction. THV implantation in a calcified native mitral ring for bailout seems not to be reproducible and thus cannot be recommended.