Is peri-operative urethral catheter drainage enough? The case for stentless pediatric robotic pyeloplasty. The necessity for urinary diversion with trans-anastomotic ureteral stenting during pyeloplasty is currently under debate. Performing a stentless repair could eliminate stent-related morbidity, including: stent migration, urinary tract infection, flank pain, and bladder spasms. In addition, there would be no need for a second procedure and associated anesthesia required for stent removal. This study describes the outcomes of robotic-assisted laparoscopic pyeloplasty without use of a ureteral stent.An IRB-approved prospective database of all pediatric patients undergoing robotic pyeloplasty from July 2012 to July 2014 at a single institution was reviewed. The 'bypass pyeloplasty' or Anderson-Hynes dismembered pyeloplasty (DP) technique was performed. In both groups, neither a ureteral stent nor an abdominal drainage catheter was utilized. Complications were recorded, including: postoperative pain, bladder spasms, fever, and urinary tract infections. Follow-up renal ultrasound was reviewed for hydronephrosis.Twenty-seven children (17 male, 10 female) with a mean age of 25 months (range 6-157 months) underwent robotic ureteral stentless pyeloplasty during the study time period. The bypass pyeloplasty technique was performed on 19 children (70%). Mean length of stay was 20.2 hours (range 11-46). No fever, urinary tract infections, or hematuria requiring intervention were experienced. Additionally, there were no reports of bladder spasms or pain requiring pharmacotherapy. The mean follow-up was 8 months (range 4-21). Pre-operative Society of Fetal Urology grading was 3.5 and 3.4 for the dismembered and bypass cohort, respectively, with improvements to 1.1 for both groups at 3 months. Postoperative renal ultrasound hydronephrosis resolved in eight children (29.6%), improved in 14 (51.9%), and was stable in five (18.5%). The overall success rate was 100%.This study was limited by its small cohort and short follow-up, which may not thoroughly describe the efficacy of the stentless repair as it has been shown that stricture and re-obstruction can occur several years after surgery.Robotic stentless pyeloplasty is a feasible alternative to conventional methods, with excellent success rates and minimal complications. Importantly, this technique circumvents the need for a second procedure and the associated risks of anesthesia.