Outcomes of total percutaneous endovascular aortic repair for thoracic, fenestrated, and branched endografts. Percutaneous endovascular aortic repair (PEVAR) has been increasingly used to treat infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms, but few studies have evaluated the results in complex aortic aneurysms. We reviewed the technical success and clinical outcomes of PEVAR using large-diameter sheaths for the treatment of complex aortic aneurysms with thoracic, fenestrated, and branched stent grafts.The clinical data of patients who underwent total PEVAR for descending thoracic aneurysm, thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm, pararenal, and aortoiliac aneurysms using thoracic, fenestrated, and branched stent grafts between 2009 and 2014 were reviewed. Repairs with fenestrated-branched stent grafts were performed using commercially available or investigational devices under a physician-sponsored investigational device protocols. Percutaneous closure was performed using ultrasound guidance and two Perclose devices (Abbott Vascular, Santa Clara Calif) per femoral puncture site. End points were technical success, access-related complications, morbidity, and mortality.There were 102 patients, 77 male and 25 female, with a mean age of 75 ± 8 years. Aneurysm extent was pararenal in 48 patients (47%), thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm in 27 (26%), descending thoracic aneurysm in 19 (19%), and aortoiliac in 8 (8%). Fenestrated or branched endografts, or both, were placed in 72 patients (71%). Total percutaneous closure was performed in 170 femoral arteries using ≥20F-diameter sheaths in 163 (96%). Technical success was obtained in 161 femoral arteries (95%). There were no factors associated with technical failure. Access-related complications occurred in five patients (5%), including femoral artery thrombosis in three (3%), and retroperitoneal hematoma or pseudoaneurysm in one patient each (1%). There were no 30-day deaths. Freedom from access-related complications was 97% ± 1% at 30 days and 1 year. No access-related complications occurred >30 days.Total percutaneous technique can be safely performed with a high technical success rate and low rate of access complications in patients with thoracic and complex aortic disease requiring large-diameter sheaths. The rate of access-related complications (5%) is similar to that reported for PEVAR of infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms using smaller-profile devices.