Evaluation of a modular endovascular bifurcation prosthesis in a canine aortic aneurysm model. The study evaluated the deployment and healing of a novel self-expanding modular bifurcation endovascular prosthesis in a canine abdominal aortic aneurysm model. The endoluminal prosthesis consists of self-expanding nitinol stents lined by a synthetic prosthesis. One component of the device is a bifurcated body with a 12- to 14-mm diameter aortic segment and an integral 7- to 8-mm diameter iliac limb. The bifurcated body also has a stent-reinforced opening (pant-leg) for subsequent insertion of a contralateral 7- to 8-mm diameter iliac limb component.Seventeen bifurcated prosthesis were placed 7 were inserted through the left common carotid artery and 10 from the femoral arteries. With either route of access the 16F or 17F aortoiliac limb and the 13F iliac limb delivery catheters enabled easy passage and secure positioning of the bifurcated prostheses. Predeployment and postdeployment inspection of the dimensions and continuity of the aortoiliac prosthetic components were evaluated by cinefluoroscopy and intravascular ultrasonography (IVUS).After deployment was done, interval patency was assessed with angiography, IVUS, and contrast-enhanced computed tomography with the prostheses removed for analysis at 1 week (n = 4), 1 month (n = 3), 3 months (n = 4), and 6 months (n = 6). Five of the first seven implanted prostheses had occlusion of segments of the device. In two dogs the bifurcated body and both legs were occluded. In the other three the nonoccluded leg and bifurcation body were fully patent. In the first seven animals IVUS at implantation showed compression of an iliac leg by the orifice of the contralateral iliac component. After concentric fixation of the flow divider was performed, only one additional iliac limb occlusion occurred in the next 10 animals. Cinefluoroscopy, computed tomography, IVUS imaging, and histologic analysis of retrieved specimens demonstrated healing of the aortoiliac prostheses without evidence of perigraft leaks.This feasibility study demonstrates the ability to deploy and maintain acceptable patency of a self-expanding endoluminal, modular bifurcation prosthesis in a canine aortic model. Clinical evaluation of the device is planned for the near future.