Percutaneous mechanical revascularization of chronic iliac artery occlusion with "first intention" stent placement. Percutaneous treatment of chronic iliac artery occlusion has not yet gained complete acceptance as the method of choice. The reason of this widespread skepticism are the poor results achieved with angioplasty and/or lysis therapy. The introduction of stents seems to open new perspectives to percutaneous treatment and the latest follow-up studies report encouraging results.We report our personal experience in percutaneous mechanical revascularization of chronic iliac occlusion with primary stent placement in 29 patients with 2 years' maximum follow-up. Clinically the patients had at least 3 months' claudication and were in Fontaine stages II to IV. The occlusion was passed mechanically using a hydrophilic guide wire, through the contralateral access in 19 cases and ipsilaterally in 10. The stents were primarily implanted in the last 12 patients in the first 15 patients, after dilatation with undersized balloons, 25 Wallstent and 12 Palmaz stents were implanted. Each patient underwent color Doppler follow-up for 3-24 months. Nine patients underwent angiography too, after one year.The mechanical passage of the guide-wire through the occluded segment was successful in 27 of 29 (93.1%) patients referred for percutaneous revascularization of a chronic occlusion of the iliac artery. The stent was placed and immediate patency was achieved in 100% of these 27 patients. Clinical improvement was of two stages in 24 patients and of one stage in 3 patients. The follow-up showed neither reocclusions nor critical stenoses of the restored iliac segment. Five embolic complications (5%) occurred after angioplasty, all of them treated percutaneously surgery was never necessary.The follow-up studies published in the literature in the last few years and our personal experience encourage the percutaneous treatment of chronic iliac artery occlusions. Percutaneous mechanical revascularization with primary stent positioning can be proposed because it is a reliable and efficacious tool, particularly in young patients in whom a surgical aortoiliac or aortofemoral bypass might injure the pudendal plexis and cause sexual disturbances.