Carotid artery repair for radiation-associated atherosclerosis is a safe and durable procedure. The development of carotid atherosclerosis after neck irradiation is well documented. There has been concern about the safety and durability of carotid artery repair through a radiated field. The objective of this report is to describe the immediate and long-term results of a series of cases collected in a 13-year interval.From 1984 to 1997, 24 patients underwent 26 carotid artery operations. All the patients had undergone prior radiation therapy at a mean interval of 17 years, with an average radiation dose of 6300 rad. Severe scarring of the skin or radiation fibrosis were present in two thirds of the patients, with 4 patients having permanent tracheostomies. The indications for carotid surgery included cerebral or monocular transient ischemic attack (58%), asymptomatic high-grade stenosis (27%), prior stroke (12%), and tumor invasion of the carotid artery (4%). General anesthesia was used with selective shunting on the basis of carotid artery back pressure or electroencephalography monitoring. Patch angioplasty closure was used in 79% of the patients. The operations included standard carotid endarterectomy (n = 20), external carotid endarterectomy (n = 2), carotid patch angioplasty alone (n = 2), aortocarotid bypass grafting (n = 1), and carotid interposition grafting (n = 1). Four patients required skin grafting or myocutaneous flaps.No deaths or strokes occurred within 30 days of the operations. Six patients had transient cranial nerve palsy, and two had wound infections. The patients were followed from 1 to 156 months, with six patients being followed for longer than 18 months. No strokes were seen at late follow-up examination. Duplex scan examination documented one occlusion, in a patient with primary closure, and two restenoses, one of which necessitated reoperation. The remainder of the grafts were widely patent.Carotid surgery after neck irradiation is safe and durable. The long-term patency rates and the protection against subsequent neurologic events are similar to the results obtained in the absence of radiation therapy. Problems of wound healing were not found in this series.