Hemorheology and tissue oxygenation in hypertensives with lipoidoproteinosis and peripheral occlusive arterial disease (POAD) treated with sulodexide and pravastatine and evaluated with laser assisted optical rotational red cell analyzer (LORCA) and transcutaneous oxymetry. During arterial hypertension it is often possible to find other factors like lipoidoproteinosis and peripheral arterial disease (POAD), which can accentuate blood rheological abnormalities in hypertensive subjects. A group of hypertensives with lipoidoproteinosis (LP) and POAD were therefore examined to evaluate the relationship between these factors and blood rheological disorders and, if possible, to correct it.We studied a group of 27 hypertensives with LP and POAD (15 males and 12 females in menopause for at least 1 year, aged 48 +/- 4 years), with WHO stage I hypertension, obesity (BMI = 30 +/- 2), stage II type "a" POAD, class 2 type "b" lipoidoproteinosis (acc. to Fredrick-son's classification) and hyperfibrinogenemia. All patients received oral medication with 500 lipidic units (ULS) sulodexide a day, 20 mg pravastatin o.d. orally, and were put on a low-salt and low-calorie diet (1400 kcal/day) during a follow-up of 60 days. Blood rheology status was evaluated before and after treatment (red blood cell--RBC--deformability and aggregability) using a new computerized instrument, which uses laser rays: the laser assisted optical rotational red cell analyzer (LORCA) (acc. to Hardeman) and RBC deformability using optical microscopy under immersion (acc. to Zipursky and Forconi). Transcutaneous oxymetry was also used to evaluate tissue oxygenation.At the end of the study a significant improvement (p < 0.01) was noted in the blood rheological patterns of peripheral perfusion and tissue oxygenation. This underlined the positive influence of sulodexide with pravastatin in improving hemorheological patterns and modulating hypercholesterolemia and hyperfibrogenemia in hypertensives with POAD II "a" and LP 2 "b" and blood rheology disorders.