The estrogen replacement and atherosclerosis (ERA) study: study design and baseline characteristics of the cohort. The Estrogen Replacement and Atherosclerosis (ERA) trial is a three-arm, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial to evaluate the effects of estrogen replacement therapy (0.625 mg/day oral conjugated estrogen) with or without continuous low-dose progestin (2.5 mg oral medroxyprogesterone acetate/day) versus placebo on progression of atherosclerosis. A total of 309 postmenopausal women at five sites underwent baseline coronary angiography and were randomized. Participants will have repeat coronary angiography after an average of 3.25 years of treatment. The primary outcome of interest will be change in minimum diameter of the major epicardial segments, as assessed by quantitative coronary angiography. The primary aim is to test the hypothesis that either form of hormone therapy will slow the progression or induce regression of coronary atherosclerosis compared to placebo. The secondary aims are to assess the effects of the two treatments versus placebo on endothelial function (measured using flow-mediated vasodilator responses), on several presumed mediators of estrogen's effect on atherosclerosis (i.e., plasma lipids and lipoproteins, blood pressure, glucose metabolism, hemostatic factors, and antioxidant activity), on other factors that influence the development of coronary heart disease (i.e., diet, smoking status, exercise, weight, and health-related quality of life issues), and on clinical cardiovascular events. The ERA trial is the first angiographic endpoint clinical trial to examine the effects of postmenopausal hormone replacement on coronary atherosclerosis in women. It will provide an unparalleled opportunity to determine if either regimen of hormone therapy is effective in slowing the progress of angiographically defined coronary atherosclerosis. This study will complement other estrogen replacement trials, such as the PEPI, HERS, and Women's Health Initiative studies, to provide a more comprehensive examination of the effects of estrogen replacement on cardiovascular risk factors, anatomic and functional manifestations of atherosclerosis, and risk for coronary heart disease in postmenopausal women. Control Clin Trials 200021:257-285