Detection of stenoses in the anterior circulation using frequency-based transcranial color-coded sonography. Atherosclerotic stenoses of the intracranial vessels are less frequent than those of the extracranial vessels, but they are associated with a considerable annual stroke rate. The aim of the present study was to investigate the usefulness of frequency-based transcranial color-coded sonography (TCCS), transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in patients with middle cerebral artery (MCA) and intracranial internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis. Forty patients presenting with 48 intracranial stenoses of the anterior circulation were involved in the study. The stenoses were detected in the neurovascular laboratory during routine TCD examinations. All patients underwent an additional frequency-based TCCS examination. Both the axial and coronal planes were obtained to allow the exact localization of MCA stenosis and differentiation from intracranial ICA stenosis. Angle-corrected flow velocity measurements were performed if straight vessel compartments were 20 mm or more in length. A total of 18 stenoses (44%) were investigated additionally with DSA. According to the investigation with TCD, 20 (42%) stenoses were low-grade, 12 (25%) were moderate, and the remaining 16 (33%) were severe. Angle-corrected flow velocity measurements obtained with the integrated pulse-wave Doppler device of the TCCS machine were highly correlated (0.912, p < 0.001) with those obtained with TCD. TCCS achieved a reliable differentiation of MCA main stem stenosis vs. intracranial ICA stenosis in 7 patients and vs. MCA branch stenosis in 4 patients, but TCD failed in these two subgroups. The agreement between DSA and TCCS to evaluate semiquantitatively 18 intracranial stenoses resulted in a weighted-kappa value of 0.764. The major clinically relevant advantages of TCCS over TCD in MCA stenosis are its ability to differentiate MCA trunk stenosis from terminal ICA or MCA branch stenosis reliably and to perform angle-corrected flow velocity measurements.