Quantitative assessment of carotid stenosis: comparison between Doppler ultrasound, spiral computed tomography angiography, magnetic resonance angiography and digital angiography. The North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial has confirmed the benefit of carotid endarterectomy in comparison to medical treatment in stroke prevention in symptomatic patients having a carotid stenosis of 70% or more. The Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study has concluded that the benefit of surgical treatment remains significant in asymptomatic patients with 60% (or more) stenosis of the ipsilateral internal carotid artery, when mortality rate remains inferior to 3%. In these two trials, angiography has been used to quantify the stenosis. Though this test is carrying some neurological and renal risks, replacing the angiography stenosis grading for a non or less invasive test, seems to be permissible.In our retroprospective study, the assessments of the carotid stenosis by several non-invasive tests findings were compared to the angiography results. Nineteen carotid arteries of fifteen patients, both symptomatic and asymptomatic, having a carotid stenosis at least 60% or more and being detected by the Doppler ultrasound were explored either by magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), spiral computed tomography angiography (SCTA) and angiography.The ultrasonography and angiography findings were well correlated (r=0,88 p<0.002) according to the Spearman test. The assessments of the MRA were better correlated to the angiography than to the SCTA (respectively r=0.91, p<0.0001 and r=0,68, p<0.001). Using both ultrasonography and MRA as a confirmatory test, the rate of injustified carotid endarterectomy was 25%. And this rate rose up to 33% when the ultrasonography was used with the SCTA. It is noteworthy that negative predictive value of ARM was 100%. To reduce the mortality rate, several surgical teams managed the carotid stenosis without angiography.MRA could replace angiography, on condition that the rate of unjustified carotid endarterectomy lowers and becomes acceptable. Far reaching complementary studies are necessary to confirm the fiability of those non-invasive tests. In order to raise the benefit to carotid endarterectomy, the research studies should turn to the predictive score determination of a surgical international risk and towards the "High benefit" patients groups after endarterectomy.