Therapeutic angiogenesis induced by human hepatocyte growth factor gene in rat and rabbit hindlimb ischemia models: preclinical study for treatment of peripheral arterial disease. Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) exclusively stimulates the growth of endothelial cells without replication of vascular smooth muscle cells, and acts as a survival factor against endothelial cell death. Recently, a novel therapeutic strategy for ischemic diseases using angiogenic growth factors to expedite and/or augment collateral artery development has been proposed. We have previously reported that intra-arterial administration of recombinant HGF induced angiogenesis in a rabbit hindlimb ischemia model. In this study, we examined the feasibility of gene therapy using HGF to treat peripheral arterial disease rather than recombinant therapy, due to its disadvantages. Initially, we examined the transfection of 'naked' human HGF plasmid into a rat hindlimb ischemia model. Intramuscular injection of human HGF plasmid resulted in a significant increase in blood flow as assessed by laser Doppler imaging, accompanied by the detection of human HGF protein. A significant increase in capillary density was found in rats transfected with human HGF as compared with control vector, in a dose-dependent manner (P < 0.01). Importantly, at 5 weeks after transfection, the degree of angiogenesis induced by transfection of HGF plasmid was significantly greater than that caused by a single injection of recombinant HGF. As an approach to human gene therapy, we also employed a rabbit hindlimb ischemia model as a preclinical study. Naked HGF plasmid was intramuscularly injected in the ischemic hindlimb of rabbits, to evaluate its angiogenic activity. Intramuscular injection of HGF plasmid once on day 10 after surgery produced significant augmentation of collateral vessel development on day 30 in the ischemia model, as assessed by angiography (P < 0.01). Serial angiograms revealed progressive linear extension of collateral arteries from the origin stem artery to the distal point of the reconstituted parent vessel in HGF-transfected animals. In addition, a significant increase in blood flow was assessed by a Doppler flow wire and the ratio in blood pressure of the ischemic limb to the normal limb was observed in rabbits transfected with HGF plasmid as compared with rabbits transfected with control vector (P < 0.01). Overall, intramuscular injection of naked human HGF plasmid induced therapeutic angiogenesis in rat and rabbit ischemic hindlimb models, as potential therapy for peripheral arterial disease.