Gender differences in vascular compliance in young, healthy subjects assessed by pulse contour analysis. Sex hormones exert important effects on the vasculature. Female sex hormones have been reported to enhance endothelial function, reduce oxidative stress, and protect against atherosclerosis. However, the effects of estrogen on vascular compliance have not been studied. Recently, noninvasive instrumentation that estimates vascular compliance by recording the radial artery pulse contour has been introduced. Reductions in the oscillatory or reflected component of the diastolic waveform have been observed in various clinical conditions, including hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and congestive heart failure, and may reflect endothelial dysfunction at the site of resistance vessels. In this study the authors examined gender-related vascular compliance in a cohort of young, healthy, predominantly nonsmoking, medication-free men and women to determine the influence of cardiovascular risk factors, including family and social history, serum lipids, plasma homocysteine, and insulin levels on vascular compliance.The volunteers, consisting of 151 healthy men and women (mean age 24A+/-4 years) completed a questionnaire detailing family and social history, medication use, and exercise habits. Large (C1) and small (C2) vessel compliance and various cardiovascular parameters were derived from arterial pulse wave contour analysis. Systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial blood pressure, pulse pressure, and pulse rate were determined simultaneously by oscillometry. Blood for fasting serum lipids, plasma homocysteine, and serum insulin were obtained in a subset of 135 subjects.The questionnaire revealed that 38% of parents had a history of hypertension, 31% had dyslipidemia, and 15% had coronary heart disease. C2 was lower in subjects with parental dyslipidemia. Compared to men, women had lower C2 lower systolic blood pressure, mean arterial pressure, and pulse pressureWomen have reduced C2 despite lower systolic blood pressure and pulse pressure and more favorable lipid and homocysteine levels. C2 is independent of height and is lower in subjects with parental dyslipidemia. These data indicate that female sex hormones have unexpected negative effects on small vessel compliance. They may help to explain why premenopausal women hospitalized for myocardial infarction have higher mortality rates than men of the same age.