Estimation of pulmonary artery occlusion pressure by an artificial neural network. We hypothesized that an artificial neural network, interconnected computer elements capable of adaptation and learning, could accurately estimate pulmonary artery occlusion pressure from the pulsatile pulmonary artery waveform.University medical center.Nineteen closed-chest dogs.Pulmonary artery waveforms were digitally sampled before conventional measurements of pulmonary artery occlusion pressure under control conditions, during infusions of serotonin or histamine, or during volume loading. Individual beats were parsed or separated out. Pulmonary artery pressure, its first time derivative, and the beat duration were used as neural inputs. The neural network was trained by using 80% of all samples and tested on the remaining 20%. For comparison, the regression between pulmonary artery diastolic pressure and pulmonary artery occlusion pressure was developed and tested using the same data sets. As a final test of generalizability, the neural network was trained on data obtained from 18 dogs and tested on data from the remaining dog in a round-robin fashion.The correlation coefficient between the pulmonary artery diastolic pressure estimate of pulmonary artery occlusion pressure and measured pulmonary artery occlusion pressure was.75, whereas that for the neural network estimate of pulmonary artery occlusion pressure was.97 (p <.01 for difference between pulmonary artery diastolic pressure and pulmonary artery occlusion pressure estimates). The pulmonary artery diastolic pressure estimate of pulmonary artery occlusion pressure showed a bias of 0.097 mm Hg (limits of agreement -7.57 to 7.767 mm Hg), whereas the neural network estimate of pulmonary artery occlusion pressure showed a bias of -0.002 mm Hg (-2.592 to 2.588 mm Hg). There was no significant change in the bias of the neural network estimate over the range of values tested. In contrast, the bias for the pulmonary artery diastolic pressure estimate significantly increased with the increasing magnitude of the pulmonary artery occlusion pressure. During round-robin testing, the neural network estimate of pulmonary artery occlusion pressure showed suboptimal performance (correlation coefficient between estimated and measured pulmonary artery occlusion pressure.59).A neural network can accurately estimate pulmonary artery occlusion pressure over a wide range of pulmonary artery occlusion pressure under conditions that alter pulmonary hemodynamics. We speculate that artificial neural networks could provide accurate, real-time estimates of pulmonary artery occlusion pressure in critically ill patients.