Evaluation of the effects of occupational noxae on the cardiovascular system. Working conditions and the environment may contribute to the multi-factorial aetiology of cardiovascular disease.To provide a critical assessment of epidemiological and clinical methods and tools for evaluating the effects of occupational pathogenic noxae on the cardiovascular system.A review was made of epidemiological and clinical studies published in the main scientific journals of occupational medicine and cardiology, in the period 1980-2003. Data sources were electronic medical data bases and conference proceedings.Collecting case histories by means of free or questionnaire-structured interviews, observing specific physical signs, detecting changes in blood chemistry parameters and identifying morphological or functional abnormalities in the heart and vessels are all useful approaches. Some blood chemistry parameters that may be modified by occupational exposure or by particular conditions arising from work organization are cholesterol, triglycerides, apolipoproteins A and B, platelets, fibrinogen, factor VIIc, fibrinolysis products, plasminogen tissue activating factor, complement and glycated hemoglobin. They can all be measured easily and quickly and provide an estimate of the risk of cardiovascular disease. As high blood pressure is closely correlated to heart disease, blood pressure levels can be monitored in a working population using a standard mercury sphygmomanometer. Electronic measurement before and after a work shift and 24 hour Holter monitoring help reduce the "white coat effect" and provide further useful information. Occupational risk factors such as toxins (metals, solvents, pesticides), electromagnetic fields, extreme temperatures, noise, radiation and psychophysical stress can affect the cardiac neuro-autonomic balance of the exposed workers and cause cardiovascular abnormalities. These can be detected by long-term ECG monitoring, and are revealed as reduced heart rate variability and prolonged QT interval. Recently non-invasive systems have been adopted to detect cardiovascular lesions that are usually due to atherosclerosis. In occupational and environmental studies ultrasound measurement of intima-medial carotid thickness and brachial artery reactivity have been used to determine the effects of exposure to carbon disulfide and passive smoking. Occupational Medicine has yet to include the use of the very expensive electron-beam computed tomography for a rapid and non-invasive study of coronary artery disease.