A multicenter survey on the diabetic foot and its neuropathy in China. To investigate the characteristics of diabetic foot with neuropathy and its related factors.530 out- and in-patients in 14 grade A class 3 comprehensive hospitals in China with foot problems were surveyed. 337 of the 500 patients (63.58%) suffered from neuropathy, 172 (32.45%) with diabetic foot with simple neuropathy and 165 (31.13%) with simple neuropathy combined with peripheral artery disease (PAD). 193 of the 500 patients (36.42%) suffered from peripheral artery disease (PAD). 77.7% of ulcer were caused by physical factors. Questionnaire survey was conducted to collect the demographic data, present and past history, history of the hyperglycemia and lipid disorders, classification and phases of the foot ulcers based on Wagner' system and Texas system, characteristics of neuropathy and other diabetic complications, and relative risk factors. Detailed physical examination was performed, including 10 g nylon filament sensation examination.The duration of diabetic foot of the patients with simple neuropathy was 3 (1, 60) months, significantly shorter than that of the diabetic foot patients with PAD [5 (1, 96) months, P < 0.001]. The Wagner degree of ulcer was related to the duration of diabetes, economic income, foot deformity, nerve reflection, diapason vibration sensation of foot, sensation point of 10 g nylon filament, ankle/brachial index (ABI), foot artery pulse, fasting blood sugar (FBS) and glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c). Stepwise regression analysis revealed that ABI of left posterior tibial artery, vibration detection threshold and economic income were the most significant influencing factors of the degree of ulcer.Neuropathy ulcer is common in diabetic foot patients. The prognosis of healing in diabetic foot with neuropathy is prior to that of diabetic foot with PAD. The neuropathy and PAD of foot influence each other and aggravate the condition of diabetic foot. The examinations of diapason vibration sensation of foot, sensation point of 10 g nylon filament, and Achilles tendon reflex are simple and practical, and are worth recommending.