Single center experience with provisional abciximab therapy in complex lower limb interventions. Abciximab, a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonist has been shown to improve patency and clinical outcome in patients undergoing endovascular recanalization of femoro-popliteal occlusions. However, data on abciximab therapy in complex peripheral catheter interventions of lower limbs are quite limited. The objective of this retrospective study was to evaluate the clinical and hemodynamic outcomes of patients treated with provisional abciximab during complex peripheral catheter interventions.Analysis of a consecutive series of 44 patients with provisional abciximab therapy in complex peripheral catheter interventions with imminent risk of early rethrombosis defined as revascularization of arterial occlusions associated with one or more of the following additional circumstances named as time-consuming intervention > 3 hours, compromised contrast flow not solved by stenting, distal embolization not solved by mechanical thromboembolectomy, and peri-interventional notice of thrombus evolution despite adequate heparin adjustment of lower limbs. Adjunctive abciximab therapy was started in accordance to percutaneous coronary bailout situations. The decision to add abciximab was based on the decision of the operator and went along with the judgement that there is a rising risk of reocclusion due to the progressive complexity of an individual intervention. A bolus of 0.25 mg per kilogram of body weight, followed by a maintenance infusion of 0.125 microg/kg/min (up to a maximum dosage of 10 microg/min) for 12 hours was administered. Clinical and hemodynamic outcome was prospectively assessed at discharge, three and six months after the index procedure.The occluded artery of 44 limbs was in the iliac (2%), in the femoro-popliteal (73%) or below the knee segment (25%). Overall, occlusion length was 11.5 +/- 6.5 cm. Technical success rate was 95%. Mean ABI increased from 0.5 +/- 0.16 to 0.88 +/- 0.19 (p < 0.001) with immediate hemodynamic improvement of 91%. Overall, sustained clinical improvement was 84% and 66% at three and six months follow-up, with best results in iliac (100%), followed by below the knee (73%) and by femoro-popliteal segment (63%) at six months, respectively. Overall, secondary clinical improvement was 86% at six months. Minor and major bleeding complications were 16% and 9%, respectively.Abciximab should be noticed as medical adjunct in the interventional armamentarium to prevent imminent rethrombosis in complex peripheral catheter interventions.