Carotid Doppler velocity measurements and anatomic stenosis: correlation is futile. Duplex ultrasound with Doppler velocimetry is widely used to evaluate the presence and severity of internal carotid artery stenosis however, a variety of velocity criteria are currently being applied to classify stenosis severity. The purpose of this study is to compare published Doppler velocity measurements to the severity of internal carotid artery stenosis as assessed by x-ray angiography in order to clarify the relationship between these 2 widely used approaches to assess carotid artery disease.Scatter diagrams or "scattergrams" of correlations between Doppler velocity measurements and stenosis severity as assessed by x-ray contrast angiography were obtained from published articles for native and stented internal carotid arteries. The scattergrams were graphically digitized, combined, and segmented into categories bounded by 50% and 70% diameter reduction. These data were combined and divided into 3 sets representing different velocity parameters: (1) peak systolic velocity, (2) end-diastolic velocity, and (3) the internal carotid artery to common carotid artery peak systolic velocity ratio. The horizontal axis of each scattergram was transformed to form a cumulative distribution function, and thresholds were established for the stenosis categories to assess data variability.Nineteen publications with 22 data sets were identified and included in this analysis. Wide variability was apparent between all 3 velocity parameters and angiographic percent stenosis. The optimal peak systolic velocity thresholds for stenosis in stented carotid arteries were higher than those for native carotid arteries. Within each category of stenosis, the variability of all 3 velocity parameters was significantly lower in stented arteries than in native arteries.Although Doppler velocity criteria have been successfully used to classify the severity of stenosis in both native and stented carotid arteries, the relationship to angiographic stenosis contains significant variability. This analysis of published studies suggests that further refinements in Doppler velocity criteria will not lead to improved correlation with carotid stenosis as demonstrated by angiography.