The age-related advancement of arterial disease measured by Doppler ultrasound diastolic flow analysis. To quantify by A-mode Doppler sonography the age-related progression of arterial disease so that age dependent normal values may be established for the screening Doppler peripheral arterial exam. Arterial distensibility was assessed by A-mode Doppler diastolic flow analysis as a measure of atherogenesis. These values will increase the sensitivity and decrease the incidence of false-positive results when the Doppler exam is utilized to differentially diagnosis vascular and sciatic neurogenic claudication. The relationship between age and results from the standard ankle/arm index ultrasound pneumatic cuff examination was also analyzed.A two by three analysis of variance with orthogonal Helmert contrast codes and simple linear regression analysis was utilized for this cross-sectionally designed investigation. The dependent measures of diastolic flow analysis and ankle/arm pressure index were obtained within three nested successively increasing age groups.Chiropractic office.Studied were a total of 90 sedentary nonsmoking subjects, aged 23-79 yr, all of whom had normally accepted levels of serum glucose, cholesterol and blood pressure. Subjects were screened for evidence of aortic coarctation, myocardial infarction, tachyarrhythmia, aortic valve stenosis, mitral prolapse, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, diabetes and peripheral occlusive arterial disease. Anthropometric measurements and percent body fat were obtained. A predictive oxygen consumption bike ergometer test was performed to obtain aerobic capacity. The commonly utilized standard ankle/arm index ultrasound pneumatic cuff examination and arterial diastolic flow analysis were performed with A-mode Doppler ultrasound on all subjects.These results demonstrate that a significant inverse linear relationship exists between aging and arterial compliance (p < .0001) in our population. Diastolic flow analysis had a greater sensitivity to arterial disease than the standard ankle/arm index ultrasound pneumatic cuff procedure.When utilizing A-mode Doppler ultrasound diastolic flow analysis as an indicator of early peripheral atherosclerotic arterial disease, increased sensitivity may be obtained when the age-related elevation in atherogenesis is taken into account.