Combined physiologic and anatomic assessment of percutaneous revascularization using a Doppler guidewire and ultrasound catheter. Previous investigations have established the utility of intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) examination for the evaluation of arterial dimensions and qualitative changes following percutaneous revascularization. More recently, the feasibility of obtaining intravascular physiology findings before and/or after percutaneous revascularization by use of an intravascular Doppler Flowire (Cardiometrics) has been demonstrated. Accordingly, we investigated the feasibility of using this combined physiologic/anatomic approach to evaluate individuals undergoing percutaneous revascularization of stenotic or occluded coronary and peripheral arteries. A total of 76 patients were evaluated using the Flowire to guide an IVUS catheter. Revascularization of coronary and peripheral vascular stenoses and/or occlusions was achieved in these patients by balloon angioplasty, directional atherectomy, excimer laser angioplasty, and thrombolytic therapy, alone or in combination. Physiologic findings obtained with the Flowire reinforced conclusions regarding morphologic severity of candidate stenoses and anatomic adequacy of revascularization following IVUS examination. In certain ambiguous cases, information gained by one modality clarified information obtained with the other. Finally, one modality may also serve as an alternative when logistics preclude the serial use of both. The preliminary experience obtained in this feasibility trial confirmed that IVUS and the Flowire may be combined to assess both candidate lesions as well as postprocedural patency in patients undergoing percutaneous revascularization. The combination of anatomic and physiologic data available from IVUS and Flowire provides a far more sensitive and possibly more accurate analysis of the adequacy of revascularization than has been possible by angiography alone. The extent to which such a detailed investigation is required to optimize interventional therapy on a routine basis is the subject of subsequent investigations.