SURUSS in perspective. Until the publication of the Serum Urine and Ultrasound Screening Study (SURUSS) report, it was difficult to compare the different antenatal screening tests for Down's Syndrome because of variations in study designs. We here present the main results from SURUSS, updated to take account of recent information on nuchal translucency in Down's Syndrome pregnancies, and discuss their implications.SURUSS was a prospective study of 47,053 singleton pregnancies (including 101 pregnancies with Down's Syndrome) conducted in 25 maternity units. Nuchal translucency measurements were taken. Serum and urine samples collected between 9 and 13 weeks, and again between 14 and 20 weeks of pregnancy were stored. Samples from each affected pregnancy and five matched controls were tested for currently used or suggested biochemical Down's Syndrome screening markers. Pregnancies were followed up to determine the presence or absence of Down's Syndrome. For an 85% Down's Syndrome detection rate, the false-positive rate for the Integrated test (nuchal translucency and pregnancy associated plasma protein-A [PAPP-A] at 11 completed weeks of pregnancy, and alpha-fetoprotein, unconjugated oestriol [uE3], free beta or total human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) and inhibin-A in the early second trimester) was 0.9%, the Serum integrated test (without nuchal translucency) 2.7%, the Combined test (nuchal translucency with free beta-hCG and PAPP-A at 11 weeks) 4.3%, the Quadruple test (alpha-fetoprotein, uE3, free beta or total hCG and inhibin-A) 6.2%, and nuchal translucency at 11 weeks, 15.2%. All tests included maternal age. Using the Integrated test at an 85% detection rate, there would be six diagnostic procedure-related unaffected fetal losses following amniocentesis per 100,000 women screened compared with 35 using the Combined test or 45 with the Quadruple test.The Integrated test offers the most effective and safe method of screening for women who attend in the first trimester. The next best test is the Serum integrated test. The Quadruple test is the best test for women who first attend in the second trimester. There is no justification for retaining the Double (alpha-fetoprotein and hCG) or Triple (alpha-fetoprotein, uE3, and hCG) tests, or nuchal translucency alone (with or without maternal age) in antenatal screening for Down's Syndrome.