A current 10-year retrospective survey of 199 surgically treated orbital floor fractures in a nonurban tertiary care center. This study characterizes the surgically treated patient population suffering from orbital floor fractures by use of current data from a large series consisting of 199 cases taken from a nonurban setting. Data were gathered through a retrospective chart review of patients surgically treated for orbital floor fractures at the University of Michigan Health System, collected over a 10-year period. Data regarding patient demographics, signs and symptoms of presentation, cause of injury, nature of injury, associated facial fractures, ocular injury, and associated nonfacial skeleton trauma were collected. In total, there were 199 cases of orbital floor fractures among 189 patients. Male patients outnumbered female patients by a 2:1 ratio and were found to engage in a wider range of behaviors that resulted in orbital floor fractures. Motor vehicle accidents were the leading cause of orbital floor fractures, followed by physical assault and sports-related mechanisms. The ratio of impure to pure orbital floor fracture was 3:1. The most common signs and symptoms associated with orbital floor fractures, in descending order, were periorbital ecchymosis, diplopia, subconjunctival hemorrhage, and enophthalmos. Associated facial fractures were found in 77.2 percent of patients, the most prevalent of which was the zygoma-malar fracture. Serious ocular injury occurred in 19.6 percent of patients, with globe rupture being the most prevalent, accounting for 40.5 percent of those injuries. There was a 38.1 percent occurrence of associated nonfacial skeletal trauma skull fracture and intracranial injury were the most prevalent manifestations. Associated cervical-spine fractures were rare (0.5 percent). Statistical examination, using odds ratios and chi-squared analysis, demonstrated significant associations that have not previously been reported. Impure and pure orbital floor fractures revealed striking differences in several demographic aspects, including mechanism of injury, signs and symptoms of presentation, spectrum of associated trauma, and the severity of concomitant trauma.