Combined posterior and delayed staged mini-open anterior short-segment fusion for thoracolumbar burst fractures. A prospective study.To assess the outcome of patients with a single thoracolumbar burst fracture treated with circumferential short-segment fusion consisting of posterior reduction, short-segment fusion, and delayed staged mini-open anterior short-segment fusion.The surgical treatment of thoracolumbar burst fractures remains controversial. In attempting to combine the advantages of posterior procedures, including initial correction of kyphosis and early decompression, and those of anterior procedures, including direct decompression and restoration of anterior column support, a combined posterior and delayed staged anterior procedure seems to be a reasonable choice. However, conventional combined procedures are invasive.We prospectively selected 28 consecutive patients with single thoracolumbar burst fracture for circumferential short-segment fusion consisting of posterior reduction, short-segment fusion, and delayed staged mini-open anterior short-segment fusion. The pedicle screw systems were removed after confirmation of posterior bony fusion to preserve as many motion segments as possible in those patients who could be treated with circumferential monosegmental fusion. Radiographic and clinical assessment of 28 patients who received this treatment was carried out.The mean loss of correction of kyphosis between the time of the combined procedure and final follow-up was 3.7 degrees (range, 0 to 10.2 degrees). Bony fusion was eventually achieved in all patients. There were 15 cases with monosegmental and 13 cases with bisegmental circumferential fusion. All 10 patients with initial neurological deficit improved by at least 1 Frankel grade: 3 improved by 1 grade, 5 improved by 2 grades, and 2 improved by 3 grades. In total, 27 patients, who were P1 or P2 on the Denis pain scale, were considered to have obtained clinically satisfactory results.This combined procedure is less invasive than the conventional combined one, and finally achieves shorter stabilization, resulting in preservation of motion segments. It thus seems to be a reasonable treatment option for thoracolumbar burst fractures.