Halo vest versus spinal fusion for cervical injury: evidence from an outcome study. The indications for surgical fusion, as opposed to halo fixation, in the management of cervical spine injury are still unclear. At St. Louis University Medical Center a conservative protocol has been adopted to treat almost all cervical spine fractures with halo fixation. To determine what factors have contributed to failure of halo fixation, the records and radiographs of all patients with cervical spine injuries who were treated at that institution between 1984 and 1986 were reviewed. During this interval, 124 patients were treated, consisting of 93 men and 31 women between 6 and 94 years old. Of these, 15 (12%) had cervical fusion without preoperative halo device application. This group included eight patients with old injuries and delayed diagnosis, three with nonreducible locked facets, and four with miscellaneous indications. The remaining 109 patients were treated with halo vests. Four died before completing the 3-month standard treatment. Of those completing the treatment, 48 had C1-2 level injuries and 57 had C3-T1 level injuries. Sixteen patients (15%) failed their halo treatments and required surgical fusion: eight while still in halo fixation and eight after they had completed treatment with a halo device. Failure of halo treatment was indicated by recurrent dislocation in 13 patients and increased neurological deficit in three. Thirteen of the patients who failed treatment had C3-T1 injuries and three had C1-2 injuries. Of 27 patients with odontoid fractures, only two (7.4%) failed halo fixation. There were no failures in 11 patients with hangman's fractures. Of the 57 patients with C3-T1 injuries, 13 (23%) failed treatment, nine of whom had locked or "perched" facets. The factors causing failure of halo fixation were analyzed. The overall success rate was 85%, suggesting that the halo vest can be used to treat most patients with cervical spine injuries. Under certain circumstances (in the presence of old injuries, difficult reduction, or locked or "perched" facets), surgery may be indicated to avoid unnecessary delay in definitive management.